	CHAPTER VI	GENERAL SERVICES
6-1	AUDITING DEPARTMENT.	6-1.1	General Duties of City Auditor.	The Auditing Department shall be under the charge of a City Auditor who shall be appointed by the Mayor, and hold office, subject to the Civil Service laws and rules and who shall have the custody of all notes, securities, bonds given for the faithful performance of a contract, contracts and other agreements to which the City is a party and for which no other provision is made, and of all bonds to the City other than the Auditor's; shall keep a register of the dates, amounts, and sureties on all such bonds, and notify the Mayor whenever any such bond expires, or whenever he is of the opinion that it is impaired by the insolvency or other disability of a surety; shall keep a complete set of books, wherein shall be entered the amount of each specific appropriation and each amount that has been expended on account of such appropriation; shall cause the accounts of the several boards, officers, agencies and departments to be regularly examined annually by competent experts at such times as the Mayor shall approve; shall notify the Mayor whenever the expenditures of a Department seem to him to be in excess of a proper monthly ratio of its appropriation; shall, when any appropriation of a Department has been wholly expended, immediately make a report of that fact to the Department and to the Mayor; shall have the custody of all bonds and certificates of indebtedness, and the coupons thereof, issued by the City, after they have been paid and delivered to him by the Collector-Treasurer; shall direct to the Collector-Treasurer all necessary drafts, checks, or other orders for the payment of money, in such form as the Mayor shall approve, and forthwith upon completion of each such examination of accounts, file one copy of his report thereof with the City Clerk, who shall keep the same open to public inspection during regular business hours; shall keep a registry of, and sign with the Collector-Treasurer, countersigned by the Mayor, all bonds and certificates 

of indebtedness of the City issued by the Collector-Treasurer; and shall, if elected, serve as Secretary of the Board of Commissioners of Sinking Funds.(Ord. August 2, 1824; St. 1909 c. 486 §§ 23 - 25; Ord. 1965 c. 2 § 15; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 1974 c. 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 1)Cross-references:	Ord. ss 6-3.6	6-1.2	Payment of Bonds, Executions, and Coupons.	The Auditor shall, immediately on receiving any bond of the City from the Collector-Treasurer, deliver to him a check or other order for the payment of the same; and shall on the days of receiving executions or coupons from the Collector-Treasurer deliver to him a draft for the total amount of the executions, coupons, and interest paid by the Collector-Treasurer to such days.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 2)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 6-3.5; ss 6-3.8 	6-1.3	Examination and Approval of Payrolls; Payment of Persons Leaving Service.	The Auditor shall, within forty-eight (48) hours after the close of the period covered by any payroll, and after examination thereof, if found correct, approve the same, and shall deliver to the Collector-Treasurer a draft to pay the amount so approved; shall at any time, on receiving a proper certificate from the Officer or Board in charge of a Department, deliver to the Collector-Treasurer a check or other order to pay the amount due any person in that Department leaving the service of the City.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 3)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.27, 5-5.28, 5-5.29; Ord. ss 6-3.8,	  ss 6-3.12	601
6-1	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-1
	6-1.4	Examination of Bills and Demands.	The Auditor shall examine every bill and demand rendered against the City of Boston or the County of Suffolk and shall ascertain whether the following facts exist:	a.	That such bill or demand has been incurred by some person duly authorized;	b.	That funds appropriated for the purpose are on hand in sufficient amount for the payment of such bill or demand;	c.	That the clerical computations involved in such bill or demand are correct;	d.	That the certificate prescribed by subsection 5-5.27 has been furnished.	If the Auditor finds that all of said facts exist, he shall make an appropriate notation on the bill or demand and forthwith forward the same to the Collector-Treasurer for payment, and, as soon thereafter as conveniently may be, shall draw a draft upon the Collector-Treasurer for the payment of such bill or demand. If the Auditor finds that any of such facts does not exist, he shall return the bill or demand with his objections to the person submitting the same.(Ord. 1949 c. 9 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 4)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.27; Ord. ss 6-3.5, ss 6-3.8; Ord.	  ss 6-3.1; Ord, ss 11-6.376-1.5	Check or Order for Payment.	The Auditor shall, when requested in writing by any officer in charge of a Department, if he deems it proper so to do, audit accounts and issue drafts for the payment thereof whenever necessary.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 5)	6-1.6	Departmental Charges.	The Auditor, at the close of each month, shall charge as an expenditure of a Department the transaction, act, or neglect of which caused a claim or suit, the amount paid in settlement, or on execution, therefor, unless provision is made for such payment out of some other appropriation; shall charge the 
amount of every bill allowed by him for printing or binding furnished any Department by the Purchasing Agent during such month, except City documents, to the appropriation for the Department to which the same was furnished, and shall credit such amount to the general revenue of the City; and shall charge to the appropriation for each division of the Public Works Department, or to the appropriation for any special work, the amount of all bills for materials, tools or machinery furnished for such division, or for such work, by other divisions of said Department, and shall credit such amount to the general revenue of the City, unless such materials, tools or machinery have been furnished by the water service, in which case the amount charged shall be credited to the water income.(Ord. 1953 c. 8 § 11; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 6)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.26, ss 5-5.33; Ord. ss 11-6.29	6-1.7	Monthly Report to Mayor and City Council.	The Auditor shall, immediately after the first day of every month, make to the Mayor and, prior to its fourth regular meeting of every month, to the City Council, a report showing the amounts of the several appropriations, the amounts of all drafts on account of each appropriation made during the month preceding, the amounts of such drafts made since the beginning of the financial year, and the balance of such appropriation remaining subject to draft.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 7; Ord. 1972 c. 11 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 7)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-7.3; Ord. ss 5-5.31	6-1.8	Annual Report.	The Auditor shall include in his annual report a statement of all the receipts and expenditures of the City for the past financial year, giving in detail the amount of each regular and special appropriation and the expenditures therefrom, the receipts from each source of income, the reduction, if any, of the City debt, and the change, if any, in the sinking funds, which statement shall be, arranged so far as practicable to conform to the accounts of the Collector-Treasurer. (Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 19; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 8)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.33; Ord. ss 6-3.5
	602
6-1	GENERAL SERVICES	6-1
	6-1.9	Deputy City Auditor.	The City Auditor may appoint, subject to the approval of the Mayor, a Deputy City Auditor, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of his duties and shall hold office until his successor is appointed and qualified. The Deputy City Auditor shall perform such duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the City Auditor. If, by reason of illness, absence, or other cause, the City Auditor be temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, the Deputy City Auditor shall perform the same until such disability ceases.(Ord. 1934 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 6 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 9)	6-1.10	Restriction on Transfer of Appropriated Money.	After an appropriation of money has been duly made by the City of Boston for any specific purpose, or for the needs and expenditures of any City Department or County Office, the City Auditor shall make transfers of the monies thus appropriated only in accordance with law, and shall make no transfer requiring approval by a yea and nay vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all of the members of the City Council under Section 1 of Chapter 604 of the Acts of 1941, as now or hereafter amended, unless the City Clerk shall certify that such approval has been given and the date thereof.(Ord. 1972 c. 11 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 10)Cross-reference:	St. 1941 c. 604 § 1	6-1.11	Expenditure of Funds in Excess of Those Appropriated.	In the event of an expenditure by any City Official of funds in excess of those appropriated by the City Council, such expenditure being in violation of CBC, St. 4, Sec. 4, the City Council may, with the assistance of the Corporation Counsel or special counsel, on behalf of the City, seek a complaint or otherwise proceed against such Official for such violation in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.(Ord. 1980 c. 3)
	6-1.12	Establishing Standard Provisions for Annual Appropriation Orders.	Unless otherwise provided by law or such order, every annual appropriation order of the City Council shall be deemed to contain the following standard provisions:	a.	No more than one-quarter (1/4) of the funds appropriated for any fiscal year for permanent personnel shall be expended for such purpose in any ninety (90) day period except with the express approval of the Mayor and City Council.	b.	No official or employee of the City shall receive overtime pay in excess of ten (10%) percent of his annual salary in any twelve (12) month period unless such excess payment is expressly approved by the Mayor and City Council.	c.	All salaries for non-civil service positions in excess of fifteen thousand ($15,000.00) dollars annually and all changes in such salaries shall be subject to approval of the City Council.	d.	Unless expressly approved by the Mayor and City Council, no department or agency of the City shall employ in any position within such department or agency any number of persons in excess of the number approved by the City Council.	e.	Unless expressly approved by the Mayor and City Council, no department or agency of the City shall expend funds in excess of two thousand ($2,000.00) dollars for contractual services for any purpose unless such funds and purposes were included on Form 6 of a program budget submitted to the Council in connection with an annual appropriation order prior to the expenditure of such funds.	f.	Unless expressly authorized by the Mayor and City Council, no person paid from funds appropriated by this order shall be paid by any agency other than the agency for which such person actually works.	g.	Passage of this order does not, either directly or implicitly, authorize, or purport to authorize, any department or agency head or any other appointing authority to disregard the provisions of 
	603
6-2	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-2
Chapter 31 of the Massachusetts General Laws or the provisions of any other special or general law.	h.	Funds appropriated by this order shall not be used to advertise the name of any City official whether elected or appointed.	i.	Unless otherwise provided by law, or written contract predating such expense, after a payroll expense has been incurred by payment from any City payroll account such expense shall not be charged to any other account without approval of the Mayor and City Council.	j.	The City Auditor shall not knowingly approve any expenditure of funds in violation of this order and the Auditor is lawfully convicted of such violation the Auditor shall be subject to a fine not to exceed one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars for each such offense.(Ord. 1980 c. 8 § 1)6-2	ASSESSING DEPARTMENT.	6-2.1	Board, Appointment, Term, Divisions of Department.	There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Assessing Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board consisting of an officer, known as the Commissioner of Assessing, appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, and of two (2) other officers, known as Associate Commissioners of Assessing, each appointed by the Mayor for a like term. The Mayor shall from time to time by a writing filed with the City Clerk designate one of the Associate Commissioners of Assessing as the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor Vehicle Excises and the other as the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Poll Taxes.	Said Board shall divide the Assessing Department from time to time into a Real Estate Appraisal Division, a Statistical Research Division, 
and such other Divisions as said Board shall adjudge necessary for the proper conduct of the Department.(Ord. 1958 c. 4 § 3; Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. To § 100)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 17-14.1Editor's Note:	By St. 1963 C. 160 the poll tax was abolished.	6-2.2	Powers and Duties of Commissioner of Assessing.	The Commissioner of Assessing shall, for the Assessing Department including the Board of Review, exclusively have the power, and perform the duties, conferred or imposed by law on the Assessor in existence immediately prior to the taking effect of this ordinance with respect to the acquisition and disposal of property, the making of contracts, and the appointment, suspension, discharge, compensation and indemnification of subordinates. The Commissioner of Assessing shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by law on the Assessor and the Board of Review in the Assessing Department in existence immediately prior to the taking effect of this ordinance with respect to taxes other than Poll and Motor Vehicle Excise Taxes, and shall further have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on Assessors of cities in Massachusetts by General Laws applicable to Boston with respect to taxes other than Poll and Motor Vehicle Excise Taxes.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 5 § 1; Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 1 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. To § 101)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 59	6-2.3	Powers and Duties of Associate Commissioners of Assessing.	The Associate Commissioners of Assessing shall have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by law on the Assessor in existence immediately prior to the taking effect of this ordinance with respect, in the case of the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor Vehicle Excises, to Motor Vehicle Excise Taxes, and in the case of the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Poll Taxes, to Poll Taxes, and shall also have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on Assessors of cities in 
	604
6-2	GENERAL SERVICES	6-3
Massachusetts by General Laws applicable to Boston with respect, in the case of the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor Vehicle Excises, to Motor Vehicle Excise Taxes, and in the case of the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Poll Taxes, to Poll Taxes. In addition, each Associate Commissioner of Assessing may, at such time as he shall have been so authorized by written designation signed by the Commissioner of Assessing, approved by the Mayor and filed with the City Clerk and such authorization shall not have been revoked in like manner, exercise the powers and perform the duties of Commissioner of Assessing in relation to such matters as may be specified in such designation. In the event of the absence, disability or vacancy in office of an Associate Commissioner of Assessing, the powers and duties conferred or imposed upon him by or under this section shall be exercised and performed by the other Associate Commissioner of Assessing.(Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 102)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 59; G.L. c. 60A § 2Editor's Note:	By St. 1963 C. 160 the poll tax was abolished.	6-2.4	Board of Review.	There shall be in the Assessing Department a Board, known as the Board of Review, consisting of:	a.	Such person in the service of the Real Estate Appraisal Division of the Assessing Department as the Mayor, by a writing filed with the City Clerk after the commencement of a municipal year, shall designate to serve ex officio on said Board at his pleasure during such year, who, while so serving, shall be Chairman of said Board;	b.	Such person in the service of the Statistical Research Division of the Assessing Department as the Mayor in like manner shall designate to serve ex officio on said Board at his pleasure during such year; and	c.	Such person as the Mayor shall appoint from the public at large to serve on said Board for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected.
	It shall be the duty of the Board of Review to review every application for the abatement of a Real Estate or Personal Property Tax and report to the Commissioner of Assessing its findings and recommendations with respect thereto, including such suggestion for settlement, if any, as, after discussion with the applicant, the Board may think proper.(Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 §§ 2, 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 103)	6-2.5	Application for Abatement.	Every application for abatement filed with the Assessing Department shall be deemed to be filed with, and shall be forthwith transmitted to, in the case of an application for the abatement of a Real Estate or Personal Property Tax, the Commissioner of Assessing, in the case of an application for the abatement of a Motor Vehicle Excise Tax, the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Motor Vehicle Excises, and in the case of an application for the abatement of a Poll Tax, the Associate Commissioner of Assessing for Poll Taxes.(Ord. 1961 c. 1 § 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 5 §§ 3, 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 104)Editor's Note:	By St. 1963 C. 160 the poll tax was abolished.6-3	TREASURY DEPARTMENT.	6-3.1	Collector-Treasurer.	a.	Appointment, Term, Powers and Duties. There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Treasury Department, which shall be under the charge of an Officer, known as the Collector-Treasurer, appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday on the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, who shall have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on him by law, shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by law on the City Collector and the City Treasurer immediately prior to the taking effect of Chapter 2 of the Ordinances of 1954 (including the powers and duties conferred or imposed by Section 7 of Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943), and shall further have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on Collectors of Taxes and Treasurers of Cities in Massachusetts by General Laws applicable to Boston.
	605
6-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-3
	b.	Survey of Properties. The Collector-Treasurer shall annually conduct a complete survey of all properties located in the City of Boston which carry a tax delinquent designation and determine the reasons or circumstances for such delinquency and further determine and cause to be executed those remedies the City of Boston may provide.(St. 1821 c. 110 § 18; St. 1854 c. 448 § 42; St. 1875 c. 176 § 1; St. 1909 c. 490 Part II; St. 1912 c. 272; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 64; Ord. 1954 c. 6 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 150; Ord. 1983 c. 10)Cross-reference:	St. 1943 c. 434 § 7	6-3.2	Divisions of Department; Appointment of Assistant Collector-Treasurers.	There shall be in the Treasury Department a Treasury Division and a Collecting Division; and the Collector-Treasurer shall, with the written approval of the Mayor in each instance, appoint for each division a First Assistant Collector-Treasurer and a Second Assistant Collector-Treasurer, each of whom shall be sworn to the faithful performance of his duties. The First Assistant Collector-Treasurer for each Division, and in the event of his absence or disability or of vacancy in his office the Second Assistant Collector-Treasurer for such Division, shall have charge under the Collector-Treasurer of such Division. Each of said Assistant Collector-Treasurers shall perform under the direction of the Collector-Treasurer such other duties as shall from time to time be assigned to him by the Collector-Treasurer, and may, at such times as he shall have been so authorized by written designation signed by the Collector-Treasurer, approved by the Mayor and filed with the City Clerk and such authorization shall not have been revoked in like manner, exercise the powers and perform the duties of Collector-Treasurer in relation to such matters as may be specified in such designation; provided, that a Second Assistant Collector-Treasurer may be authorized to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the Collector-Treasurer only when there is absence or disability or vacancy in office in the case of the Collector-Treasurer, the First Assistant Collector-Treasurer for the Treasury Division and the 
First Assistant Collector-Treasurer for the Collecting Division.(Ord. 1954 c. 6 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 151)	6-3.3	Appointment of Deputy-Collectors.	The Collector-Treasurer may appoint such Deputy Collectors (including a Chief Deputy Collector) as the service may be found to require, who shall have like power as the Collector-Treasurer to receive any tax, assessment, account, debt or claim payable to the City or County and to serve any bill, demand, notice or other paper of the Collector-Treasurer and make affidavit of the manner of such service, and, in addition thereto, shall have power to give notice of, serve and execute any warrant committed to him by the Collector-Treasurer under Section 34 of Chapter 60 of the General Laws, and in the service and execution thereof shall have all the powers and duties of a Collector of Taxes.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 152)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 60 § 34	6-3.4	Bonds of Subordinates.	The Collector-Treasurer shall require from each of his subordinates, before each enters upon the duties of his office or position and annually thereafter and at such other times as the Collector-Treasurer shall determine, for the faithful discharge of his duties and trusts and the safe custody and lawful disposition of all money and other property belonging to the City or County which may come into his possession, a bond running to the Collector-Treasurer with a surety company authorized to transact business in Massachusetts as surety in the penal sum, in the case of an Assistant Collector-Treasurer, of two hundred thousand ($200,000.00) dollars, and in the case of every other permanent employee, of not less than five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars nor more than fifty thousand ($50,000.00) dollars as the Collector-Treasurer shall in each case prescribe.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 153)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.6
	606
6-3	GENERAL SERVICES	6-3
	6-3.5	Collection of Accounts by Collector-Treasurer.	The Collector-Treasurer shall collect and receive all taxes and assessments payable to the City or County, whether committed to him or outstanding at the time of his appointment. He shall also collect and receive all accounts, debts and claims payable to the City or County, and in the collection thereof shall have all the remedies provided by Sections 35, 36 and 93 of Chapter 60 of the General Laws. He shall further collect and receive, except where other provision is made, all other money to be paid to, or for the use of, the City or the County. He shall have custody of all leases from the City. He shall, whenever a water rate is paid, immediately notify the Commissioner of Public Works of such payment.(Ord. 1941 c. 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 154)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 11-6.6; Statutes, Title 11 §§ 150, 172,	  177	6-3.6	Custody and Deposit of Funds; Signing Bonds; Treasurer of Sinking Fund Commissioners.	The Collector-Treasurer shall receive, receipt for, and have the care, and custody of, the current funds of the City from the time the same shall come into his possession, and also of all money, property, and securities which may come into his possession by virtue of any statute or ordinance, or as a gift, devise, bequest, or deposit; may deposit any portion of such current funds in such savings banks or trust companies organized under the laws of Massachusetts and doing business in Boston or such national banks doing business in Boston or such national bank or trust company in the City of New York, and on such conditions and rates of interest, as he shall deem best, subject to the approval of the Mayor, provided, however, that no such deposit shall be made except in conformity with law; shall, with the Mayor and the City Auditor, sign all bonds and certificates of indebtedness issued by the City; shall preserve all bids for loans, and papers relating thereto; and shall, if elected, serve as Treasurer of the Board of Commissioners of Sinking Funds. If the Collector-Treasurer is elected Treasurer of said Board, his bond as Collector-Treasurer shall apply to and 
include his duties as Treasurer of said Board. The Collector-Treasurer shall not be eligible for appointment to said Board.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 s. 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 155; Ord. 1990 c. 3)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 6-1.1; Ord. ss 6-1.2	6-3.7	Investment of Public Funds with Tobacco-Related Companies.	No public funds under the care and custody of the Collector-Treasurer of the City of Boston, as specified in subsection 6-3.11, shall be invested or remain invested in the stocks, securities or other obligations of any company which derives more than fifteen (15%) percent of its revenue from the sale of tobacco products. Any proceeds of the sales required under this subsection shall be invested as much as reasonably possible in institutions or companies which invest or conduct business or operations in the City of Boston or the Commonwealth of Massachusetts so long as such use is consistent with sound investment policy.(Ord. 1997 c. 3)Editor's Note: 	Former subsection 6-3.7, Divesting	  Municipal/Public Monies Dealing with South	  Africa, previously codified herein and	  containing portions of Ordinance Nos. 1984 c.	  19 and 1991 c. 6 was repealed in its entirety	   by Ordinance No. 1994 c. 4.	6-3.8	Payments of Money by Collector-Treasurer.	The Collector-Treasurer shall pay over to the Board of Commissioners of Sinking Funds all money received by him from assessments laid or to be laid on account of betterments from public improvements the expenses of which were paid for by the proceeds of loans, and all sums received from the sale or lease of City property purchased out of the proceeds of loans, except where provision to the contrary is made by statute or ordinance, to be by them credited to the sinking funds established for such loans, or in case of serial loans to be held by them toward paying the installments as they fall due. The Collector-Treasurer shall also pay all drafts, checks and other orders directed to him by the City Auditor, in accordance with these ordinances, for the payment of bills and 
	607
6-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-3
demands against the City; shall on presentation pay every execution against the City, when approved by the Corporation Counsel, even if the appropriation to which the execution is chargeable is not sufficient to meet it; shall pay on presentation when due all bonds issued by the City and the interest on the same; shall cancel all bonds and coupons and daily deliver to the City Auditor the bonds and executions paid during the day; shall at the close of business on the last day of each month deliver to the City Auditor the coupons paid during such month and statement of the total amount paid for interest during such month and shall use and apply as the City Council may direct all property, money and securities in his care and custody at the close of each financial year for the application of which no other provision has been made. (Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 156)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 6-1.3; Ord. ss 8-7.1	6-3.9	Monthly Reports.	The Collector-Treasurer shall, on or before the tenth of each month, render to the Mayor a statement of the receipts and payments of the Treasury Department for the preceding month and a summary of the like items for the current financial year up to the close of the preceding month.(Rev. Ord. 1961 s. 25 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 157)	6-3.10	Payments to Employees and Others.	The Collector-Treasurer may make payments to school teachers, school building custodians, policemen, witnesses, jurors, and persons employed in and about the various departments and institutions of the City and of the County, in such of the public buildings in the different sections of the City, or upon such public works, as he may designate, and as will best facilitate such payments and prevent the loss of time by the persons receiving them.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 158)	6-3.11	Disposition of Gifts, Bequests, Investment Thereof.	The Collector-Treasurer, unless the donors have otherwise directed, shall receive all properties given, devised or bequeathed to, or deposited with, the City for any specific purpose, and shall use the same, or the income thereof, as designated in the gift, 
devise, bequest or deposit. If the income only is to be used, he shall hold the properties as permanent funds. He shall invest and keep invested the said permanent funds in conformity with Section 54 of Chapter 44 of the General Laws notwithstanding the last sentence thereof. For the purpose of investment and reinvestment he shall have power from time to time in his discretion to sell or exchange any of the securities of which any of the said permanent funds consist; but all purchases, exchanges and sales shall be with the written approval of the Mayor.	To facilitate the investment management of trust funds for which the Collector-Treasurer is custodian, the Collector-Treasurer may cause any security which is an asset of a trust fund for which the Collector-Treasurer is custodian, unless otherwise provided by the specific terms of an individual trust instrument, to be registered and held in the name of a partnership or a corporate nominee named by him. The Collector-Treasurer may do or cause to be done all acts necessary to the creation of such nominee registrations.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 10; Ord. 1972 c. 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 159; Ord. 1976 c. 16)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 44 §§ 53A, 54; St. 3 § 1	6-3.12	Police Charitable Fund.	The Collector-Treasurer shall use the income of the Police Charitable Fund for the relief of persons in necessitous circumstances who shall be found by the Police Commissioner to have been honorably discharged from the police force by reason of sickness, age or other disability, or to be the widows or orphans of Police Officers who have died while in the service of the City; and may monthly pay to such persons the amount of such income determined and allowed by the Police Commissioner, with the approval of the Mayor, on a monthly payroll sent to the City Auditor.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 25 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T6 § 160)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 6-1.3
	608
6-4	GENERAL SERVICES	6-6
6-4	APPROPRIATIONS AND LOANS.	6-4.1	Submission of Annual Budget.	In the event that he has not done so prior to such time, the Mayor, not later than the first day of May of each year, shall submit to the City Council the annual budget of the current expenses of the City and County for the forthcoming fiscal year in its entirety as provided for by Chapter 486 of the Acts of 1909.(Ord. 1979 c. 43)6-5	FINANCE COMMISSION.	No Ordinances Apply. See Special Statutes.(CBC 1975 Ord. T6)6-6	OFFICE OF THE PARKING CLERK.	6-6.1	Parking Clerk; Appointment and Duties.	a.	There shall be in the City a Division of the Traffic and Parking Department known as the Office of the Parking Clerk, under the control and direction of an official known as the Parking Clerk, appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council under the provisions of the charter and pursuant to Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90 of the General Laws.	b.	The Parking Clerk shall supervise and coordinate the processing of parking notices in the City. The Parking Clerk shall have the authority to hire or designate such personnel as may be necessary or contract by competitive bid including, but not limited to, advertising in a newspaper of general circulation once a week for at least two (2) consecutive weeks, the use of detailed, written publicly available selection criteria by the Parking Clerk, in conformance with any and all special and general laws dealing with open competitive bidding for such services, subject to appropriation, to implement the provisions of this ordinance and Sections 10A1/2, 20C, and 20E, of Chapter 90 of the General Laws.	c.	Positions in the Office of the Parking Clerk shall be filled until June 30, 1983, by granting preference to persons who had been employees of the 
Police, Fire, or Traffic and Parking Departments of the City after July 1, 1981, and all positions shall be subject to Chapter 31 of the General Laws.	d.	The amount expended for personnel of the Office of the Parking Clerk shall not exceed five (5%) percent of the total receipts collected during the previous fiscal year.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)Editor's Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of the	  Acts of 1986.	6-6.2	Issuance of Parking Violation Notices.	a.	It shall be the duty of every Police Officer, and every person assigned such responsibility, who takes cognizance of a violation of any provision of any rule, regulation, order, ordinance, or bylaw regulating the parking of motor vehicles in the City of Boston forthwith to give the offender a notice to appear before the Parking Clerk, during regular office hours, not later than twenty-one (21) days after the date of the violation.	b.	The notice to appear shall be in tag form, as prescribed by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90 of the General Laws.	c.	The Parking Clerk shall distribute such violation notices to the Police Commissioner and Traffic and Parking Commissioner and other authorized enforcement officials upon request, and shall take a receipt therefor.	d.	Notice affixed to a motor vehicle as provided in Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90 shall be deemed a sufficient notice and shall be deemed prima facie evidence thereof and shall be admissible in any judicial or administrative proceedings of the Office of the Parking Clerk as to the facts contained therein.	e.	At or before the completion of each tour of duty, the officer shall give to his commanding officer 
	609
6-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-6
copies of each notice of violation issued during such tour. The commanding officer shall retain and safely preserve one copy of each violation notice and shall at a time no later than the beginning of the next business day, deliver a copy of the notice to the Office of the Parking Clerk. The Parking Clerk shall maintain a docket of all such notices to appear.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)Editor's Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of the	  Acts of 1986.	6-6.3	Schedule of Fines.	a.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of any posted prohibition against stopping or standing of motor vehicles shall be seventy-five ($75.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	b.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking in excess of one vehicle width from the curb or edge of a roadway (double parking) within “Zone A,” as defined by the Boston Transportation Commission, shall be forty-five ($45.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of fifteen ($15.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	c.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the curb or edge of a roadway (double parking) within “Zone B,” as defined by the Boston Transportation Commission, shall be thirty ($30.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of ten ($10.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	d.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking within an intersection, or upon any street or roadway within twenty (20') feet of an intersecting way, except alleys,
shall be forty ($40.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	e.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking within ten (10') feet of a fire hydrant shall be one  hundred ($100.00) dollars for each violation. A penalty of thirty-three ($33.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	f.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking within Residential Parking Districts, unless said vehicle displays in the rear window a valid and current sticker as issued by the Transportation Department for the district in which the vehicle is parked, shall be forty dollars and no cents ($40.00) for each such violation.  A penalty of  thirteen dollars and no cents ($13.00) shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	g.	The fine for parking a vehicle in any public hackney carriage stand shall be fifty ($50.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of sixteen ($16.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	h.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking upon any roadway where the parking of the vehicle will not leave a clear and unobstructed lane at least ten (10') feet wide for passing traffic (fire lane) shall be one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirty-three ($33.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	i.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking upon any sidewalk shall be sixty-five ($65.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of twenty-one ($21.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	j .	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking upon any crosswalk shall be eighty-five ($85.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of twenty-eight ($28.00) dollars 
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	610
6-6	GENERAL SERVICES	6-6
shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	k.	The fine for parking a vehicle in front of any pedestrian sidewalk ramp shall be one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirty-three ($33.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	l.	The fine for parking a vehicle not bearing distinctive license plates as issued by the Registry of Motor Vehicles to handicapped persons or disabled veterans on any street or part thereof where signs are erected reserving the space of HP or DV plate vehicles shall be one hundred twenty ($120.00) dollars for each such fine. A penalty of forty ($40.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	m.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking in a loading zone shall be fifty-five ($55.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of eighteen ($18.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	n.	Unless otherwise specified in this subsection 6-6.3, the fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking of motor vehicles within “Zone A,” as defined by the Transportation Commission, shall be fifty-five ($55.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of eighteen ($18.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	o.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of any posted prohibition against parking of motor vehicles during hours designated for street cleaning shall be forty ($40.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	p.	The fine for parking a vehicle in a metered space during the hours when the parking meter zone is effective and failing to immediately deposit the required fee in the amount indicated on said meter, and if so required, set the mechanism in motion, shall 
be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. A penalty of eight ($8.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	q.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking during a snow or weather emergency as declared by the Commissioner of Transportation shall be forty-five ($45.00) dollars. A penalty of fifteen ($15.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	r.	The fine for stopping, standing or parking any vehicle other than a bus in an area designated as a bus stop shall be fifty-five ($55.00) dollars. A penalty of eighteen ($18.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	s.	The fine for parking or standing any vehicle bearing commercial vehicle number plates, or any semi-trailer, having a capacity of one (1) ton or over, for more than one (1) hour between 9:00 p.m. of one (1) day and 8:00 a.m. of the following day, or any time on Sunday, on any part of any street, way, highway, road or parkway under the control of the City, where parking or standing a vehicle is not otherwise prohibited shall be sixty-five ($65.00) dollars. A penalty of twenty-one ($21.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	t.	The fine for parking a vehicle in excess of twelve (12”) inches from the edge of a curb or roadway shall be thirty-five ($35.00) dollars. A penalty of eleven ($11.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	u.	The fine for stopping, standing or parking a vehicle in front of any driveway shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. A penalty of eight ($8.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	v.	The fine for stopping, standing or parking a vehicle adjacent to or upon any center division strip, street car reservation, or island placed upon and being a part of any public way, unless the vehicle is entirely 
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	611
6-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-6
within a parking meter space or in a space otherwise provided, shall be forty ($40.00) dollars. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	w.	The fine for failing to park a vehicle wholly within a parking meter space shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. At the drive-in stall of either a single or a dual parking meter, the fine for failing to park a vehicle with the right front bumper perpendicular to the meter post shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. At the back-in stall of a dual parking meter, the fine for failing to park a vehicle with the right rear bumper perpendicular to the meter post shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. A penalty of eight ($8.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	x.	The fine for permitting a vehicle, except a commercial vehicle, as defined by the Transportation Commission, to remain in a parking meter space beyond the maximum period of time allowed in the particular zone shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. A penalty of eight ($8.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	y.	The fine for parking a vehicle at a parking meter space where the meter device displays the statement “Not a Legal Space - Violation,” shall be twenty ($20.00) dollars. A penalty of six ($6.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	z.	The fine for parking a vehicle continuously for any period of time exceeding the posted limit within “Zone A,” as defined by the Transportation Commission, shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars. A penalty of eight ($8.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	aa.	The fine for parking a vehicle not bearing a valid registration plate(s) as required under Chapter 90 of the Massachusetts General Laws, on any street, way, highway, road or parkway under the control of the City shall be forty ($40.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall 
be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	bb.	The fine for parking a vehicle bearing an expired registration as required under Chapter 90 of the Massachusetts General Laws, on any street, way, highway, road or parkway under the control of the City shall be forty ($40.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	cc.	The fine for parking a vehicle not bearing a valid certificate of inspection as required under Chapter 90 of the Massachusetts General Laws, on any street, way, highway, road or parkway under the control of the City shall be forty ($40.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	dd.	The fine for parking a vehicle bearing an expired certificate of inspection as required under Chapter 90 of the Massachusetts General Laws, on any street, way, highway, road or parkway under the control of the City shall be forty ($40.00) dollars for each such violation. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	ee.	The fine for parking a vehicle on any street, way, highway, road or parkway under the control of the City for the purpose of performing non-emergency repairs on said vehicle shall be forty ($40.00) dollars for each such violation. Nonemergency repairs shall mean the changing of any vehicle fluid and any other repair with the exception of minor safety related repairs that can be fully completed within ninety (90) minutes, such as changing a flat tire, replacing a headlight or bulb, or replacing a wiper blade. A penalty of thirteen ($13.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	ff.	The fine for parking any motor vehicle having a gross vehicle weight in excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds between the hours of 9:00 p.m. of one (1) day and 8:00 a.m. of the following day or anytime on Sunday, on any part of any street, way, highway, road or parkway under the control of 
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	612
6-6	GENERAL SERVICES	6-6
the City that is residential shall be one hundred ($100.00) dollars. A penalty of thirty-three ($33.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after the issuance of a notice of such violation.	gg.	The fine for parking a vehicle upon any street, highway, road or parkway under the control of the City where such vehicle possesses an unauthorized and/or revoked City of Boston Resident Parking Permit shall be one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each such violation.  A penalty of thirty-three ($33.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after the issuance of a notice of such violation. 	hh.	The fine for parking a vehicle in violation of the prohibition against parking of motor vehicles within "Zone B", as defined by the Transportation Commissioner, shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars for each such violation.  A penalty of eight ($8.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.	ii.	The fine for parking a vehicle continuously for any period of time exceeding the posted limit within "Zone B", as defined by the Transportation Commissioner, shall be twenty-five ($25.00) dollars for each such violation.  A penalty of eight ($8.00) dollars shall be assessed if the fine remains unpaid twenty-one (21) days after issuance of a notice of such violation.(Ord. 1983 c. 20 § 2; Ord. 1985 c. 4 § 79; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 10 §§ 2, 3; Ord. 1993 c. 1; Ord. 1993 c. 6; Ord. 1998 c. 6 §§ 1, 3; Ord. 2002 c. 2; Ord. 2002 c. 4; Ord. 2002 c. 5; Ord. 2003 c. 12; Ord. 2003 c. 13; Ord. 2003 c. 14; Ord. 2003 c. 15; Ord. 2005 c. 6; Ord. 2005 c. 9; Ord. 2007 c. 8; Ord. 2008 c. 5; Ord. 2010 c. 4)	6-6.4	Payment of Fines.	a.	Any person receiving a violation notice may appear before the Parking Clerk, or his designee, and confess the offense charged, either personally, through an agent duly authorized in writing, or by mailing to the Parking Clerk the notice accompanied by the fine provided therein. Payment by mail shall be made only by postal note, money order, or check made out to the Parking Clerk. Payment in person may be made by cash, postal order, money order, or check made out to the Parking Clerk and in the case of
payment made in cash the Parking Clerk shall issue a receipt therefor. Payment of a fine shall operate as a final disposition of the case.	b.	The Transportation Commission shall from time to time establish by rule or regulation a schedule of fines for violations of any provision of any rule, regulation, order, ordinance or bylaw regulating parking in the City. All such fines shall be uniform for the same offense committed in the same zone. Increase in such fines from the fifteen ($15.00) dollar limit set by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90 shall be established by ordinance.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)Editor’s Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of the	  Acts of 1986.	6-6.5	Hearings and Appeals.	a.	If any person, fails to appear and pay the prescribed fine within twenty-one (21) days as  required by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90 or if such person having appeared, within twenty-one (21) days as required by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90, desires not to avail himself of the benefits of the procedure established by this ordinance, the Parking Clerk shall as prescribed by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90, forthwith schedule the matter before a person hereafter referred to as a Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be the Parking Clerk or other such person as the Parking Clerk may designate.	b.	Written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be sent by first-class mail to the registered owner. The hearing, as prescribed by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90, shall be informal, the rules of evidence shall not apply, and the decision of the Hearing Officer shall be final, subject to judicial review under Section 14 of Chapter 30A.	c.	The Hearing Officer shall have authority to only adjudicate disputes as to the validity of the parking violation notices issued for violations of the rules and regulations of the Boston Traffic and Parking Commission.
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	613
6-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-6
	d.	Proceedings for review of the decision of the Parking Clerk shall be instituted in the Suffolk Superior Court within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice of the final decision of the Parking Clerk or if a petition for rehearing has been timely filed with the Parking Clerk, within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice of the Parking Clerk’s denial of such petition for rehearing. The commencement of an action shall not operate as a stay of enforcement of the Parking Clerk’s decision, but the Parking Clerk may stay enforcement, and the reviewing court may order a stay upon such terms as it considers proper as prescribed by Section 14 of Chapter 30A. The City shall, by way of answer, file in court the original or a certified copy of the record of the proceeding under review.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)Editor’s Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	Department were assumed by the	Transportation Commission, the	Transportation Commissioner and the	Transportation Department respectively	under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of 	the Acts of 1986.	6-6.6	Impoundment of Vehicles.	a.	If any person shall have failed to appear in accordance with five (5) or more said notices, the Parking Clerk shall as prescribed by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90 notify the Police Commissioner or Commissioner of Traffic and Parking that the vehicle involved shall be removed and stored or otherwise immobilized at the expense of the registered owner until such time as the matter has been disposed of in accordance with law. A notice announcing such action shall be mailed to the registered owner by the Parking Clerk.	b.	No motor vehicle impounded pursuant to an arrest for OUI may be released prior to the passing of twelve (12) hours following the arrest.	c.	No motor vehicle impounded pursuant to an arrest for or an arrest related to manufacturing, compounding, processing, delivering, dispensing, distributing, importing, or exporting of any controlled
substance in violation of any provision of M.G.L. c.94, sections 32, 32A, 32B, 32C, 32D, 32E, 32F, 32G, 32I, 32J, or 40 or otherwise involving possession of a controlled substance, purchase of a controlled substance, and/or distribution of a controlled substance may be released until (i) forty-eight (48) hours have passed from the time of the related arrest, (ii) a fine in the amount of three hundred dollars and no cents ($300.00) has been paid and evidence of payment is presented, and (iii) seizure proceedings, if commenced, have been closed.  All monies collected pursuant to this section shall be dedicated and directed to drug treatment programs in the City of Boston and law enforcement programs targeting drug trafficking in the City of Boston.	d.	No motor vehicle impounded pursuant to arrest for or an arrest related to solicitation (M.G.L. c.272, s.8), common nightwalker (M.G.L. c.272, s.53), prostitution (M.G.L. c.272, s.53 via c.277, s.79), support from prostitution (M.G.L. c.272, s.7), room/building for prostitution (M.G.L. c.272, s.9), enticing (M.G.L. c.272, s.2), control of place for prostitution (M.G.L. c.272, s.6), and/or keeping a house of ill fame (M.G.L. c.272, s.24), may be released until (i) forty-eight (48) hours have passed from the time of the related arrest, (ii) a fine in the amount of three hundred dollars and no cents ($300.00) has been paid and evidence of payment is presented, (iii) all fees related to the towing and storage of the impounded vehicle have been paid and evidence of payment is presented, and (iv) seizure proceedings, if commenced, have been closed.  All fine monies collected pursuant to this section shall be dedicated to prostitute recovery programs in the City of Boston and law enforcement programs targeting solicitation in the City of Boston.(Ord. 1982 c. 14; Ord. 2002 c. 10; Ord. 2004 c. 7; Ord. 2004 c. 8)Editor’s Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of the	  Acts of 1986.
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	614
6-6	GENERAL SERVICES	6-6
	6-6.7	Nonrenewal of License and Registration.	a.	If any person fails to appear in accordance with the notice of a hearing, the Parking Clerk shall notify the Registrar of Motor Vehicles who shall, as required by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90, place the matter on record and not renew the license to operate motor vehicles of the registered owner of the vehicle or the registration of said vehicle until after notice from the Parking Clerk that the matter has been disposed of in accordance with law.	b.	It shall be the duty of the Parking Clerk to notify the registrar forthwith that such case has been disposed of in accordance with law, provided however, that a certified receipt of full and final payment form the Parking Clerk shall also serve as legal notice as prescribed by Section 20A1/2 of Chapter 90 to the registrar that said violations have been disposed of.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)	6-6.8	Licensed Taxi Cabs and Leased Vehicles.	a.	Anything contained herein notwithstanding, if the registered owner of a motor vehicle involved in a parking violation subject to this section is a person or entity engaged in the licensed taxicab business or the business of leasing motor vehicles, and such motor vehicle is under lease or being operated for hire at the time of such violation the procedures of this subsection shall be applicable, and the registered owner shall be liable for any unpaid fines only upon compliance by the Parking Clerk as defined above with the procedures hereinafter set forth:	b.	The Parking Clerk shall give to the registered owner notice in writing of each violation in which a motor vehicle owned by such owner is involved, including the license number of the vehicle, state of issue and date and time of the violation.	c.	Within thirty (30) days, the registered owner shall furnish to such Parking Clerk in writing the name and address of the lessee of such motor vehicle at the time of such violation and if the lessee is also the operator, the license number, and state of issue of the license of such lessee.
	d.	The Parking Clerk shall thereupon issue a notice of violation to such lessee in the form prescribed by this ordinance.	e.	If such lessee does not appear in person or by writing as otherwise provided in the ordinance or make payment within twenty-one (21) days from the date on which such notice is issued, the Parking Clerk shall notify the registrar as provided by the provisions of Section 20A and 20A1/2, and the Clerk of the Division of the District Court Department or Boston Municipal Court Department of the Trial Court having jurisdiction. Upon notification by the Parking Clerk the registrar shall suspend any license issued under this chapter or suspend the right to operate of a person not licensed in this commonwealth; and the Clerk of the District Court of the trial court having jurisdiction shall forthwith issue a criminal complaint against the lessee and thereafter proceed against such lessee following the procedures established for criminal cases.
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	614.1
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	614.2
6-6	GENERAL SERVICES	6-7
	f.	After notification of the Registrar and the Clerk of the District Court Department of the Trial Court having jurisdiction of nonpayment by the lessee within twenty-one (21) days of the fine imposed by the City, the Parking Clerk shall notify by first-class mail, the registered owner of such nonpayment. The registered owner shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice, pay the fine for such violation. If thereafter, any payment is received by the Parking Clerk from or on behalf of the lessee, the Parking Clerk shall forthwith reimburse to the registered owner the amount paid by such registered owner. If any payment is received by the court from or on the behalf of the lessee, the Clerk of the Division of the District Court Department or the Boston Municipal Court Department of the Trial Court having jurisdiction shall forward said payment to the Parking Clerk who shall forthwith reimburse to the registered owner the amount paid by such registered owner, if not previously reimbursed. The Registrar shall remove any suspension of license or right to operate upon the payment in full to the Parking Clerk of the fine and penalty for such violation by the lessee.	g.	The provisions of this ordinance shall be applicable to lessees of motor vehicles as provided herein.	h.	Any registered owner and Parking Clerk may by agreement upon such terms and conditions as they may deem appropriate provide for the transmission of the information hereinbefore referred to in paragraphs b. and c. of this subsection, on magnetic tape or in other computer readable format, in order to expedite completion of the foregoing procedures.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)	6-6.9	Agreements With Other Governmental Agencies.	a.	The Parking Clerk shall have the authority to enter into such agreements and contracts with other Cities, Towns, and government agencies within the Commonwealth as may be necessary or expedient to effectuate the collection of fines and adjudication of parking violation notices.	b.	Such agreements and contracts shall be subject to the approval of the Corporation Counsel and the Mayor.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)
	6-6.10	Statutes Applicable.	This ordinance shall be construed to conform to the provisions of Sections 20A1/2, 20C, 20D, and 20E of Chapter 90, as amended, and to Section 4A of Chapter 90C, as amended, and other applicable laws of the Commonwealth.(Ord. 1982 c. 14)6-7	DISABLED VETERANS/HANDICAPPED PARKING.	6-7.1	Purpose.	The purpose of this section is to insure Boston residents who are disabled veterans or handicapped have access to public and private facilities and services; to provide regulations for the designation, enforcement and penalty for misuse of parking areas designated as reserved for disabled veterans or handicapped persons; and to establish a temporary identification system for use of parking areas designated as reserved for disabled veterans or handicapped persons.(Ord. 1983 c. 20)	6-7.2	Scope.	a.	This section shall apply to any person or body that has lawful control of a public or private way or enclosed property used as off-street parking areas for businesses, shopping malls, theaters, auditoriums, sporting or recreational facilities, cultural centers, residential dwellings, or for any other place where the public has a right of access as invitees or licensees.	b.	Such persons or bodies shall designate parking areas as reserved for motor vehicles owned and operated by a disabled veteran or a handicapped person whose vehicle bears the HP/V distinguishing license plate authorized by Section 2 of Chapter 90 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the temporary identification authorized by the provisions of this section.	c.	Such persons or bodies shall assure that said spaces conform with the size, width and location requirements as set forth in Section 21, clause 13(a) of Chapter 40 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
	615
6-7	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-7
	d.	Such persons or bodies shall display signs which state that HP/V parking regulations shall be enforced.	e.	Parking spaces designated as reserved under the provisions of this section shall be identified by the use of above-grade signs with white lettering against a blue background and shall bear the words “HP/V PARKING ONLY: Special Identification Required. Unauthorized vehicles May be Ticketed or Removed at Owner's Expense.” Complaints shall be referred to the Commission on the Handicapped for enforcement.	f.	The Department of Traffic and Parking may deny or revoke licenses granted pursuant to Section 56 of Chapter 148 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to licensees of open-air parking spaces not in compliance with the provisions of this section.	g.	The Department of Traffic and Parking shall be authorized to remove or select an independent contractor to remove motor vehicles obstructing any curb ramp designated for use by disabled veterans or handicapped persons or obstructing any parking spaces reserved for a motor vehicle owned and operated by a disabled veteran or handicapped persons whose vehicle bears the distinguishing license plate authorized by Section 2 of Chapter 90 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or who is in possession of the temporary identification authorized by the provisions of this section.	h.	There shall be two forms of motor vehicle identification for the purpose of this section. The HP/V distinguishing license plate authorized by Section 2 of Chapter 90 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the temporary identification authorized by the provisions of this section.(Ord. 1983 c. 20)Editor's Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of the	  Acts of 1986.
	6-7.3	Identification Card.	The Commission on Handicapped in cooperation with the Department of Traffic and Parking shall issue a temporary identification card certifying the right of the holder to use parking spaces designated as reserved for disabled veterans or handicapped persons in the following circumstances: disabled veterans or handicapped persons who have applied for but not yet received the distinguishing license plate authorized by Section 2 of Chapter 90 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; disabled veterans or handicapped persons whose motor vehicle is out of service and who are using a motor vehicle not bearing said distinguishing license plate; disabled veterans or handicapped persons who have an out-of-state HP/V license plate; and individuals who have acquired a temporary disability of a severe nature and who can provide medical documentation of same. A separate dashboard card shall be issued to those who transport persons who are blind or mobility impaired which will allow sixty (60) minute parking in HP/V designated areas. Said cards shall be valid for a maximum of ninety (90) days and shall be distinctive so as to disallow fraud, and shall be numbered and tracked by a comprehensive record keeping process. Any person who improperly uses a motor vehicle with a HP/V distinguishing plate or temporary identification authorized by the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of two hundred ($200.00) dollars. If a person receives a parking violation while properly using HP/V distinguishing plate or temporary identification authorized by the provisions of this section, said violation shall be dismissed if, prior to twenty-one (21) days evidence demonstrating to use handicapped parking rights at the time of receiving the ticket.(Ord. 1983 c. 20; Ord. 1984 c. 8)Editor's Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of the	  Acts of 1986.
	616
6-7	GENERAL SERVICES	6-8
	6-7.4	Revocation of Designated Parking Space.	Whenever the Transportation Department shall have designated a particular parking space as reserved for handicapped persons as a result of a request made by a qualified resident applicant residing nearby and two (2) years have elapsed since designation, the person who filed the request shall be notified in writing that unless an affidavit of continued need (in a form to be provided by the Department) is filed within sixty (60) days, the designation will be revoked. Where no such affidavit is timely filed, the designation shall be deemed revoked and marking signs removed forthwith.(Ord. 1996 c. 13)6-8	MUNICIPAL DEPOSITORIES.	6-8.1	Definitions.	a.	Applicant shall mean any person who applies for a mortgage loan, commercial loan, home equity, consumer, home improvement or student loan as defined in this section, whether or not the loan is granted.	b.	Census tract shall mean a standard statistical area as established by the United States Bureau of Census.	c.	Collector-Treasurer shall mean the Collector-Treasurer of the City of Boston.	d.	Commercial loan shall mean a loan which is secured by commercial property.	e.	Financial institution shall mean any commercial bank, savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union, cooperative bank, mutual bank, trust company, or other entity which makes mortgage, consumer, commercial, community development or home improvement loans.	f.	Boston SMSA shall mean the Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area of the Greater Boston Region as defined by the United States Bureau of Census.
	g.	Home improvement or rehabilitation loan shall mean a loan, the proceeds of which are to be used for the purpose of repairing, rehabilitating or remodeling an existing residential dwelling.	h.	Mortgage loan and home equity loan shall mean a loan which is secured by residential property.	i.	Consumer loan shall mean a loan which is secured by an individual or families to finance personal consumption.	j.	Community development loan shall mean a loan which is secured for the purposes of constructing or rehabilitating commercial or residential property.	k.	Student loan shall mean a loan which is secured for the purposes of financing or refinancing a student's attendance at any degree granting educational institution authorized by law to provide a program of education beyond the high school level, made by or on behalf of such an institution of any financial institution.	l.	Redlining shall mean the practice of systematically denying credit on the basis of the geographic location of the borrower or property to be borrowed against.(Ord. 1990 c. 3 § 1)	6-8.2	Disclosure of Lending Information.	Prior to the deposit of any City monies in any financial institution, as authorized by the Collector-Treasurer in accordance and in conjunction with the provisions of Section 5b of Chapter 40, Sections 36, 44 and 46 of Chapter 41 and Sections 53-55 of Chapter 44 of the MGLA, such financial institution shall disclose the following information and data on forms approved by the Collector-Treasurer for each census tract within the City of Boston and outside the City of Boston within the Boston SMSA:	a.	Loan Activity.		1.	The number of loans and total dollar amount;		2.	The median effective interest rate;
	617
6-8	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	6-8
		3.	The median down payment;		4.	The median amortization;		5.	The percentage of such applicants whose applications were denied; for the following types of loans:			(a)	Residential loans:  Data shall be reported separately for property containing (i) one (1) to four (4) dwelling units; and (ii) five (5) to eight (8) dwelling units; and (iii) more than eight (8) dwelling units. Only loans closed within the previous calendar year shall be reported. The information and data for mortgage loans shall be further itemized listing the following separately:				(1)	Conventional mortgage loans and;				(2)	Mortgage loans which are insured under title II of the Housing Act of 1949, or which are guaranteed under chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code (FHA, FMHA, or VA loans).				(3)	Mortgage loans which are insured or financed by the Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency (MHFA).			(b)	Home improvement loans or rehabilitation loans made on residential properties.			(c)	Home equity loans.			(d)	Commercial loans.			(e)	Consumer loans.			(f)	Community development loans.			(g)	Student loans.	b.	Participation and Services.		1.	The financial institution's participation in local community development projects or, financing of low and middle income housing;		2.	The availability of banking services, including but not limited to, the location of branch 
offices, automated teller machines (ATM) and the availability of bank personnel to service loans;		3.	The hiring and promotion of women, minorities and Boston residents;		4.	Deposit information, including but not limited to, the number of savings and checking accounts and the total dollar balances in the savings and checking accounts.(Ord. 1990 c. 3 § 2)	6-8.3	Failure to Provide Information.	If any financial institution refuses to provide any of the information or data, the Collector-Treasurer shall report such refusal to the Mayor and the City Council. If such institution has previously been designated by the Collector-Treasurer as a City depository, the City shall withdraw such designation. The Treasurer shall also maintain a list of any financial institutions which refuse to provide such information, which list shall be a public record.(Ord. 1990 c. 3 § 3)	6-8.4	Pledge.	Beginning in January of 1990, prior to the deposit of any City monies in any financial institution, the City Collector-Treasurer shall obtain the following pledges from an authorized official of said institution:	a.	Not to discriminate against any individual or group seeking a mortgage, commercial, consumer, home improvement, or community development loan in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration, down payment or other terms or conditions of such loan, because of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity or expression, or national origin of such individual or group or of any individual or group associated with him or her in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or the dwelling or dwellings, if any in relation to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given; and	b.	Not to indulge in redlining activities against any City neighborhood, including arbitrarily rejecting mortgage loans for residential properties within a specific geographic area in Boston because of the 
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	618
6-8	GENERAL SERVICES	6-8
location and/or age of the property; and to make and affirmatively market loans available on low and moderate income residential property in all the neighborhoods of the City of Boston within the limits of legal restrictions and prudent financial practices.(Ord. 1990 c. 3 § 4; Ord. 2002 c. 9)	6-8.5	Municipal Banking Commission.	a.	There shall be, in the City of Boston, a Commission known as the Municipal Banking Commission for the purposes of analyzing data and information submitted to the Treasurer by financial institutions wishing to become City depositories.	b.	The Commission shall consist of five (5) members who shall be appointed by the Mayor. The members shall serve without compensation; provided, however, that each member may be reimbursed by the Commission for all expenses reasonably incurred by them in the performance of their duties. The Commission shall consist of the following persons:		1.	The Collector-Treasurer of the City of Boston ex-officio or his or her designee;		2.	The President of the Boston City Council ex-officio or his or her designee;		3.	One (1) individual from an organization that seeks to address community reinvestment needs;		4.	One (1) individual from a financial institution doing business in the City of Boston;		5.	One (1) individual from a non-profit organization which seeks to address the housing needs in the City of Boston;		6.	Two (2) individuals residing in the neighborhoods of the City of Boston most affected by redlining activities.	c.	The term for each Commissioner shall be three (3) years; provided, however, that of the members first appointed to the commission, two (2) shall serve for two (2) years and two (2) shall serve for one (1) year. The Commissioners shall appoint a Chairperson. Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor.(Ord. 1990 c. 3 § 5)
	6-8.6	Evaluation of Data.	Each year, prior to the authorization of deposits of City monies with any financial institutions, the Commission shall submit a report to the Mayor and the City Council detailing the information submitted by each lender and recommend to the Treasurer those institutions whose performance best reflects the City's goal of encouraging lending within the community.	The Commission's report and recommendations shall be based on review of the information submitted pursuant to subsection 6-8.2 of this section including:	a.	Evaluation of each lender's performance in granting mortgage, home improvement, home equity, commercial, consumer and community development loans.	b.	The lender's compliance with the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, including the duty to educate the public regarding CRA requirements.	c.	Current activity in minority and low and moderate income neighborhoods and the availability of bank personnel to serve loans in those areas.	d.	Initiatives in areas such as commercial lending and low and moderate income housing. (Ord. 1990 c. 3 § 6)	6-8.7	Severability Clause.	Each of the provisions, sections, and subsections of this section are severable, and if any of its provisions, sections, or subsections shall be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decisions of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sections, or subsections. (Ord. 1990 c. 3 § 7)
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	619
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	


	620