	CHAPTER VII	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
7-1	CONSERVATION COMMISSION.	7-1.1	Composition of Board; Terms of Office.	There shall be in the City a board, known as the Conservation Commission, consisting of the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, ex officio, and six (6) Conservation Commissioners, who shall be residents of the City, appointed by the Mayor, of whom two (2) shall be appointed from candidates nominated, one (1) each by the Board of Directors or like body of the following corporations or organizations: the Massachusetts Audubon Society, Inc., the Massachusetts Forest and Park Association, the Massachusetts Roadside Council, the Trustees of Reservations, the Eastern Massachusetts Group of the New England Chapter of the Sierra Club, Boston Green Space Alliance, the Boston Harbor Associates, Boston Urban Gardeners, Friends of the Boston Harbor Islands, Save the Harbor/Save the Bay, the Boston Natural Areas Fund, the Charles River Watershed Association, and the Neponset River Watershed Association. As the term of any Conservation Commissioner expires, his successor shall be appointed in like manner for a term of three (3) years. Any vacancy in the office of a Conservation Commissioner shall be filled in like manner for the unexpired term.	The Mayor shall from time to time designate one of the Conservation Commissioners as Chairman and another as Vice-Chairman. The Commission shall elect a secretary who need not be a member of the Commission.

	The Commissioners shall serve without compensation, and shall be deemed to be special municipal employees for the purposes of Chapter 268A of the General Laws.(Ord. 1970 c. 10; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10.1 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 1; Ord. 1988 c. 16 §§ 1-4)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 268A; Ord. ss 7-4.1	7-1.2	Powers and Duties.	The Conservation Commission shall, subject to the provisions of the charter as that term is defined in clause Fifth of Section 7 of Chapter 4 of the General Laws, have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on conservation commissions by Section 8C of Chapter 40 of the General Laws.	The Commission, with the approval of the City Council, may from time to time promulgate, amend, and repeal regulations relative to the collection of recyclable materials. Such regulations shall be adopted only after public hearing and in consultation with the Commissioner of Public Works. The Commission may, in its own discretion, grant or withhold a permit or permits allowing the collection of recyclable materials from places on or abutting public ways, which permit or permits may allow practices prohibited by subsection 16-1.21 of the ordinances; provided, however, that before any such permit is issued the Commission shall satisfy itself that the potential permittee will conduct such collection in a manner consistent with the protection of the public health and safety. No such permit shall be issued for a period greater than one year, and all shall be subject to revocation by the Commission at any time. The 	701
7-1	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-3
Commission may impose conditions and restrictions on permittees and may require the posting of security for faithful performance by a permittee.(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10.1 § 2; Ord. 1973 c. 12 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 2)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 4 § 7; G.L. c. 40 § 8C	7-1.3	Duties of Public Facilities Commission and Public Improvement Commission.	The Public Facilities Commission shall not transfer any land from the municipal purpose to which it is devoted at the time of transfer to any other municipal purpose unless not less than fourteen (14) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to transfer, the Director of Public Facilities has given the Conservation Commission written notice of his intention to recommend such transfer; nor shall the Public Improvement Commission lay-out, relocate, or widen any public way unless not less than fourteen (14) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to such laying-out relocation or widening, the Commissioner of Public Works has given the Conservation Commission written notice of his intention to recommend such laying-out, relocation or widening.(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10.1 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 3)Cross-Reference:	Statutes, Title 8 §§ 11,12; Ord. ss 11-6.97-2	AIR POLLUTION CONTROL COMMISSION.	7-2.1	Appointment; Powers and Duties.	There shall be in the Health and Hospitals Departments a Board, known as the Air Pollution Control Commission, consisting of the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, ex officio; the Commissioner of Traffic and Parking, ex officio; and three (3) members appointed by the Mayor. The appointive members shall serve for a term expiring on the first Monday of January, 1980. As the term of any member expires, his successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of three (3) years. Any vacancy in the office of an appointive member shall be filled by the 
Mayor for the unexpired term. All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.	The Air Pollution Control Commission shall not be subject to the supervision or control of the Board of Health and Hospitals or of Commissioner of Health and Hospitals except as he acts as a member of the Commission; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the Commission shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make any annual or other report, except through the Board of Health and Hospitals.	The Air Pollution Control Commission shall have full jurisdiction to regulate and control atmospheric pollution as now or hereafter provided in Section 31C of Chapter 111 of the General Laws.	The Air Pollution Control Commission shall have jurisdiction to investigate, control and abate noise from whatever source, and shall also have power, after due notice and a public hearing, to adopt noise level standards and to promulgate regulations, including regulations providing that no activity likely to produce unreasonable noise may be carried on unless a permit therefor is first obtained from the Commission, which may specify in such permit the time or times within which, and the method by which, such activity is to be carried on. The Commission may fix a fee of not less than ten ($10.00) dollars nor more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each permit issued by it.	The Air Pollution Control Commission shall have power to require the production of records and documents relevant to its work and to compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses before it.(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 15 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 50; Ord. 1977 c. 3)Cross-reference:	G.L. Ch. 111 S 31C; Ord. ss 2-7.1; Ord. ss	  12-1.17-3	BAY VILLAGE HISTORIC DISTRICT.	7-3.1	Bay Village Historic District.	The purpose of this ordinance is to promote the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of 
	702
7-3	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-3
the public through the preservation and protection of the distinctive characteristics of buildings and places significant in the history of the City of Boston that are located in the area known as Bay Village, and through the maintenance and improvement of settings for such buildings and places and the encouragement of design compatible therewith.	There is hereby established an Historic District to be known as the Bay Village Historic District under the provisions of the Historic District Act, General Laws, Chapter 40C and Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, the boundaries of which are as shown on the map entitled “Bay Village Historic District,” dated Fall, 1979, which accompanies and is hereby declared to be part of the ordinance.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)	7-3.2	Definitions.	As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the following meanings:	Building Commissioner shall mean Commissioner of Inspectional Services of the City of Boston or his assignee.	Commission shall mean the Bay Village Historic District Commission.	Exterior Architectural Feature shall mean the architectural style and general arrangement of such portion of the exterior of a structure as is designed to be open to view from a public way, including all elevations intended to be seen on freestanding buildings, and kind, color and texture of the building material of such portion and type of all windows, doors, lights, signs, and other fixtures appurtenant to such portion except those exempted from review in accordance with Chapter 40C of the General Laws and this ordinance.	Sign shall mean a sign, marquee, awning or other exterior feature protruding from any structure.	Structure shall mean a combination of materials assembled at a fixed location to give support or shelter, such as a building, bridge, trestle, tower, framework, retaining wall, tank, tunnel, tent, stadium, reviewing stand, platform, bin, fence, sign, flagpole or the like. The word “structure” shall be construed, 
where the context allows, as though followed by the words “or part thereof”.(Ord 1983 c. 18)	7-3.3	Bay Village Historic District Commission.	There is hereby established an Historic District Commission, under the provisions of the General Laws, Chapter 40C, and Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, consisting of five (5) members and three (3) alternate members to be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. When the Commission is first established, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2) shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years and two (2) shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. When the Commission is first established, one alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one alternate member shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years and one alternate member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years.	Successors to members and to alternate members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, except that members and alternate members may be appointed during a term to fill vacancies occurring on the Commission for the remaining portion of the term.	The membership of the Commission shall be comprised of one member from two (2) nominees. submitted by the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities; one member from two (2) nominees submitted by the Boston Society of Architects; one member from two (2) nominees serving on the Boston Landmarks Commission; one member from two (2) nominees submitted by the Greater Boston Real Estate Board; one member, a resident of the Bay Village Historic District; two (2) alternate members from four (4) nominees who are residents of the Bay Village Historic District; one alternate member from two (2) nominees serving on the Boston Landmarks Commissions.	The Commission shall elect annually a Chair and Vice-Chair from its own number and a Secretary from within or without its number.	Alternates shall have all powers and duties of regular members when called to serve by the Chair or Vice-Chair of the Commission.
	703
7-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-3
	All members and alternates shall serve without compensation.	All members and alternates shall be residents of the City of Boston. It is preferred that the majority of membership be residents of the Historic District.	Without regard to Chapter 31 of the General Laws and under the provisions of Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, as amended, the City of Boston Environment Department shall provide the Commission with an administrative staff adequate to carry on the functions of the Commission as provided for in this ordinance.	Such staff shall be employees of the Environment Department, and notwithstanding the foregoing the Commission may contract directly for such professional and expert technical assistance as such business shall require.	For the purposes of Chapter 268A of the General Laws, every member of the Commission, and every person who shall, on a part-time and consultative basis, perform any professional services for the Commission, such as the services of architect, attorney, engineer, architectural historian, planner, environmentalist or expert in construction, finance, real estate or traffic, shall be deemed to be a special municipal employee.	The Commission shall adopt bylaws which specify the standards and criteria included in the Bay Village Historic District Study Report. Amendments to criteria may be established by amendments to the bylaws of the Commission.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)	7-3.4	Administration of Historic Districts.	No building, or property, or structure within the Historic District shall be constructed, demolished, moved or altered in any way that affects exterior architectural features, and no building shall be moved into the Historic District unless the Commission shall first have issued a Certificate of Appropriateness, a Certificate of Hardship or a Certificate of Non-Applicability with respect to such construction, demolition, alteration or movement. The Building Commissioner shall not issue a permit within an Historic District unless one of the certificates noted above has first been issued by the Commission or the 
proposed improvement is exempted from these provisions by subsection 7-3.5.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)  Penalty, see subsection 7-3.8	7-3.5	Exemptions to Review.	The Authority of the Commission is not extended to the review of the following:	a.	Temporary structures or signs, subject, however, to such conditions as to duration of use, location, lighting, removal and similar matters as the Commission may reasonably specify in the standards and criteria.	b.	Decorative lighting fixtures within entryways.	c.	Paint or stain of any color not on any masonry or brick surface.	d.	Ordinary maintenance or repair of an exterior architectural feature which involves no change in design, material or outward appearance thereof.	e.	Construction, reconstruction, alteration or demolition of any such feature which the Building Commissioner shall certify is required by the public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition.	f.	Rear elevations except on freestanding buildings.	g.	The Boston Redevelopment Authority shall administer the development of Urban Renewal Parcel R-7 in accordance with the September, 1980, Developers Kit (The Guidelines) for this parcel, whose guidelines are incorporated herein by reference. This exemption shall terminate upon completion of development, and the completed building and associated property shall then be subject to Commission jurisdiction in all respects.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)	7-3.6	Applications for Certificates from Historic District Commission.	Any person who is required to obtain a certificate from the Commission shall file with the Commission, an application for a Certificate of Appropriateness, a Certificate of Non-Applicability, or a Certificate of Hardship, as the case may be, in such
	704
7-3	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-3
form as the Commission may reasonably determine, together with such plans, elevations, specifications, material and other information, including, in the case of demolition or removal, a statement of the proposed condition and appearance of the property thereafter, as may be reasonably deemed necessary by the Commission to enable it to make a determination on the application.	Within eight (8) days after the filing for a Certificate of Appropriateness, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excluded, the Commission shall determine the properties materially affected by the application. Unless a public hearing on such application is waived in writing by all persons entitled to a notice, the Commission shall require its secretary to give, by mail, reasonable notice of a public hearing before the Commission on such application to the applicant, the owners of all property determined by the Commission to be materially affected as they appear on the most recent real estate tax list, and any persons filing a written request for notice of hearings, such requests to be renewed yearly in December.	The Commission, as soon as may be convenient following such public hearing, or the waiver thereof, but within thirty (30) days, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excluded, after the filing of the application for the Certificate of Appropriateness, or within such further time as the applicant may in writing allow, shall determine whether or not the construction, reconstruction, alteration, or demolition of the exterior architectural feature is consistent with the purpose of this ordinance and whether, notwithstanding that it may be inappropriate owing to conditions especially affecting the structure involved but not affecting the Historic Bay Village District generally, failure to issue a Certificate of Appropriateness will involve a substantial hardship to the applicant and such a certificate may be issued without substantial detriment to the public welfare and without substantial derogation from the intent and purposes of this ordinance.	In passing upon appropriateness, the Commission shall consider, in addition to other pertinent factors as specified in the standards and criteria section of the bylaws, the historical and architectural value and significance, architectural style, general design, arrangement, texture and material of the exterior architectural feature involved and the relationship thereof to the exterior architectural features of other structures in the immediate neighborhood.
	If the Commission determines that a Certificate of Appropriateness should be granted, the Secretary of the Commission shall issue to the applicant a Certificate of Appropriateness. If the Commission fails to make a determination within the time hereinafter prescribed, the Secretary of the Commission shall issue to the applicant a Certificate of Hardship. If the Commission determines that a certificate not be issued, then the Commission shall include in its records the reasons for such determination any recommendations it may have. The Secretary shall then, by mail, give notice of such determination to applicant and to every person filing a written request for such notice, enclosing with it an attested copy of the reasons and recommendations as contained in the records on the Commission.	Every person about to apply to the Building Commissioner for a permit to construct any structure in the Historic District or to reconstruct, alter or demolish any structure now or hereafter in said district shall deposit with the Secretary of the Commission his application for such permit together with such plans, specifications and other material as the Commission may from time to time prescribe. Within eight (8) days thereafter, Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays excluded, the Commission shall consider such application, plans, specifications and other material and determine whether any exterior architectural feature is involved. If it is so determined that no exterior architectural feature is involved, the Secretary of the Commission shall endorse on the application a Certificate of Non-Applicability and return the application, plans, specifications and other material to the applicant.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)	7-3.7	Appeals.	Under the provisions of the General Laws, Chapter 40C, Section 12A, any applicant aggrieved by a determination of the Commission, may, within twenty (20) days after the filing of the notice of such determination or such finding with the City Clerk, appeal to the Superior Court for Suffolk County. The Court shall hear all pertinent evidence and shall annul the determination of the Commission if it finds the decision of the Commission to be unsupported by the evidence, or to exceed the authority of the Commission, or may remand the case for further action by the Commission, or make such other decree as justice and equity may require. The remedy provided by this section shall be exclusive; but the
	705
7-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-4
parties shall have all rights of appeal and exception as in other equity cases. Costs shall not be allowed against the Commission unless it shall appear to the Court that the Commission acted with gross negligence, in bad faith or with malice in the matter from which the appeal was taken. Costs shall not be allowed against the party appealing from such determination of the Commission unless it shall appear to the court that the appellant acted in bad faith or with malice in making the appeal to the court.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)	7-3.8	Enforcement.	Whoever, without the certificate required by and effective in accordance with this act, shall undertake any construction, reconstruction, restoration, exterior execution, exterior replacement or alteration or demolition with respect to any exterior architectural feature in Bay Village Historic District shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty ($50.00) dollars nor more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars, and whoever, after having received from the Commissioner appropriate notice to desist, shall, in violation of this act, permit any exterior architectural feature in the Historic District to continue to exist shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty ($50.00) dollars nor more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars. A separate offense shall occur every day during any portion of which any such violation shall transpire.	Upon petition of the Commission, the Superior Court for Suffolk County may restrain any construction, reconstruction, restoration, exterior replacement, alteration, or demolition in violation of this act and may order the removal in whole or in part of any exterior architectural feature permitted to exist in violation of this act and may order the removal in whole or in part of any exterior architectural feature permitted to exist in violation of this act and may order such reconstruction or restoration as may be necessary or desirable to redress any alterations or demolition undertaken in violation of this act.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)	7-3.9	Fees.	The fee that shall accompany an application for a Certificate of Appropriateness from the Bay Village Historic District Commission shall be set by ordinance.(Ord. 1983 c. 18)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 18-1.5(8)
	7-3.10	Other Function of Commission.	The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its business, not inconsistent with Chapter 40C of the General Laws, or with the purpose of this ordinance. The Commission with approval of the Mayor and City Council may receive and accept appropriations, grants and gifts for the furthering of the purposes of this ordinance. It may establish an historic marker program, publish guides, maps and other appropriate publications to illustrate historical and architectural resources of this Historic District. The Commission may propose changes in the Bay Village Historic District boundaries and additional historic districts as it deems appropriate, subject to the General Laws, Chapter 40C and to Chapter 772, Acts of 1975, as amended.(Ord. 1983 c.18)	7-3.11	Severability.	In case any section, paragraph or part of this ordinance be for any reason declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of last resort, every other section, paragraph or part shall continue in full force and effect.(Ord. 1983 c.18)	[The Commission shall notify, by mail, all property owners in the Historic District of the establishment of the District. After passage of this ordinance, and prior to establishment of the Bay Village Historic District Commission, the Boston Landmarks Commission may assume the powers and responsibilities of the Commission. Ord. 1983 Ch. 18 Section 2]7-4	PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.	7-4.1	Composition of Board.	There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Parks and Recreation Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board, known as the Parks and Recreation Commission, consisting of an officer, known as the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, who shall be Chairman of the Board, one (1) Assistant Commissioner likewise appointed by the Mayor for a
	706
7-4	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-4
term expiring on the first Monday in January following the next biennial election of which a Mayor is elected, and five (5) other officers known as Associate Commissioners of Parks and Recreation, appointed by the Mayor. As the term of any Associate Commissioner expires, his successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of four (4) years. Any vacancy in the office of an Associate Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. The Associate Commissioners shall serve without pay.(St. 1875 c. 185; Ord. 1954 c. 2 §§ 36, 37; Ord. 1970 c. 8 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 100; Ord. 1982 c. 13 § 1; Ord. 1987 c. 2 § 1)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss. 2-7.1	7-4.2	Powers and Duties.	The Commissioner of Parks and Recreation shall exclusively have the powers, and perform the duties, of a Department head with respect to the making of contracts and the appointment, suspension, discharge, compensation and indemnification of subordinates for the Department; but otherwise the Board shall have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on Boards of Park Commissioners of cities in Massachusetts by general laws applicable to Boston and, except as aforesaid, shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by law on the Board of Park Commissioners and Board of Recreation in existence immediately prior to the taking effect of Chapter 2 of the Ordinances of 1954. The Board shall further have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on it by law. The Deputy Commissioner and the Assistant Commissioners of the Parks and Recreation Department shall have such powers and perform such duties as are from time to time proposed upon them by law or delegated to them by the Commissioner.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 38; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 101; Ord. 1982 c. 13 § 2; Ord 1987 c. 2 § 2; Ord. 1995 c. 1 § 2)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 11-6.1
	7-4.2A	Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioners to the Parks and Recreation Department.	There shall be one (1) Deputy Commissioner and two (2) Assistant Commissioners under the charge of the Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation Department, respectively known as the Deputy Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation Department and the Assistant Commissioner for Internal Operations and the Assistant Commissioner for Regional Administration. The Deputy Commissioner and the Assistant Commissioners of the Parks and Recreation Department shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected. Any vacancy in the office of Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. (Ord. 1987 c. 2 § 3 [101a]; Ord. 1995 c. 1 § 1)	7-4.3	Control of Parks, Public Grounds, Baths, Beaches, Gymnasia and Convenience Stations.	The Board shall construct, improve, equip, supervise, and regulate the use of all parks, public grounds, playgrounds, baths and beaches formerly under the charge and control of the Park Commissioners, the Superintendent of Public Grounds or the Trustees of the Bath Department, or that hereafter may be placed in charge of the Parks and Recreation Department, or that may be taken by purchase or otherwise; and such other parks, playgrounds, public grounds, ways, or means for outdoor recreation as may be placed in the charge of the Department by the City, the Board of Metropolitan Park Commissioners, or the legislature, or in any other manner. The Board shall construct, improve, equip, supervise, and regulate the use of all gymnasia, bath houses, or other means for public recreation, now or hereafter provided by the City; and shall have the care, custody and control of, and shall construct, all urinals and public convenience stations upon park lands and public grounds.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 102)	7-4.4	Control of Portions of Post Office, Dock, and Faneuil Hall Squares.	Until otherwise provided, the Parks and Recreation Commission shall improve, maintain, keep
	707
7-4	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-4
in repair, govern and regulate the portion of Post Office Square shown as “Existing Island” on Public Works Department (Survey Division) plan No. K-558A entitled “City of Boston-Post Office Sq.-Boston Proper-May 20, 1957-George G. Hyland, Commissioner of Public Works”, and also the portions of Dock and Faneuil Hall Squares lying within the circle with radius of fifteen (15') feet and area of about seven hundred seven (707) square feet shown on Public Works Department Survey Division plan No. L-8626 entitled “City of Boston-Dock Sq.-Boston Proper-June 20, 1955-George G. Hyland, Commissioner of Public Works”. (Ord. 1956 c. 5; Ord. 1957 c. 5; Rev. Ord. c. 19 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 103)	7-4.5	Care of Flag Poles.	The Board shall care for, maintain and, when necessary, replace all flag poles now or hereafter erected, and shall erect such other flag poles as may be hereafter provided for, on the Common, Public Garden, parks, playgrounds, golf courses, cemeteries, public grounds, public squares and other public places controlled by the City, except public buildings, and shall provide the necessary flags therefor and display them thereon in accordance with Section 1-3 of these ordinances.(Ord. 1953 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 104)	7-4.6	Music.	The Board shall have the charge and control of the selection of public music to be given for parades, concerts, public celebrations and other purposes under appropriations of the City Council, and shall designate the persons to furnish the same.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 39; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 105)	7-4.7	Trees.	The Commissioner of Parks and Recreation shall have the care and superintendence of all trees, plants and shrubs belonging to the City; shall trim all shade trees standing in the street so that they shall not interfere with public travel; shall carry out all orders of the Commissioner of Public Works made after public notice and hearing to remove trees standing in the street; shall, upon request of the officer having charge of the public lamps, trim in such manner as said officer may require any tree which interferes with 
the proper lighting of a street; shall cause all statutes and ordinances for the protection of trees, shrubs and flowers in the public grounds and streets to be strictly observed; and shall be deemed to be the official having charge of shade trees within the meaning of Chapter 87 of the General Laws.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 39; Ord. 1964 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 106)Cross-references:	G.L. c. 87; Statutes, 11 §§ 106, 158, 165, 174	7-4.8	Promulgation of Rules and Regulations, Fixing of Penalties.	The Parks and Recreation Commission shall have the powers and duties conferred or imposed by Section 5 of Chapter 45 of the General Laws on Boards of Park Commissioners of cities in Massachusetts and by Section 3 of Chapter 185 of the Acts of 1875 on the Board of Park Commissioners created by said Chapter 185 to make rules and regulations for the government and use of the parks as defined in Section 1 of said Chapter 45 of the parkways, playgrounds, streets, structures and other premises under its charge, and to fix penalties for breaches of such rules and regulations.(Ord. 1912 c. 10 § 8; Ord. 1969 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 107)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 45 §§ 1, 5; St. 1875 c. 185 § 3	7-4.9	Seats on Common and Public Garden for Use of Women and Children.	The Board shall set aside and suitably designate seats on the Common and Public Garden during the months of June, July, August and September of each year for the exclusive use of women and of children under the age of twelve (12) years.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 108)	7-4.10	Restrictions on Park Frontages.	No building or structure or any part thereof hereafter erected or altered on land which abuts on and has an entrance into and is within a distance of one hundred (100') feet from the following: The Fens (excepting Charlesgate East and Charlesgate West from a point one hundred (100') feet north from their intersection with Commonwealth Avenue to Charles River); Riverway, including Park Drive, from Brookline Avenue to Beacon Street; Commonwealth
	708
7-4	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-4
Avenue, from Arlington Street to a line drawn parallel to and one hundred thirty (130') feet west of Charlesgate West, and from a line parallel to and one hundred thirty-five (135') feet south of the southerly line of Mt. Hood Road, as extended across Commonwealth Avenue, to the Newton line; Jamaicaway; Olmsted Park; Arborway; Columbia Road on the southerly side from Sumner Street to Dorchester Avenue, and from Buttonwood Street to Marine Park, and on the northerly side from Boston Street to Dorchester Avenue, and from Buttonwood Street to Marine Park, South Boston; shall be used for a livery or public stable or public garage, or for any mechanical, mercantile or manufacturing purposes, nor, excepting churches and chapels, shall the extreme height of said buildings or structures exceed seventy (70') feet from the mean grade of the edgestone or sidewalk on the front facing said parkway, exclusive of such steeples, towers, domes, cornices, parapets, balustrades, sculptured ornaments, chimneys and roofs as the Parks and Recreation Commission shall approve; and no roof on any of the aforementioned buildings shall be used for laundry or clothes-drying purposes; provided, however, that the provision restricting the extreme height of buildings to seventy (70') feet from the mean grade of the edgestone or sidewalk shall not apply to buildings or structures or any part thereof now being or hereafter erected or altered on the lot of land on Commonwealth Avenue known and numbered as 2000 Commonwealth Avenue; and provided also that as to the lot of land to the southwest corner of Commonwealth Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue the prohibition of the use of building for mercantile purposes shall apply only to so much of any building erected thereon as lies within fifty (50') feet of the southerly line of Commonwealth Avenue; and provided further, however, that the prohibition of the use of building for mercantile purposes shall not apply to the lot of land on Ipswich Street bounded by and making the northwest corner of Charlesgate West and Boylston Street; provided further, however, that the prohibition of the use of any said buildings and structures for a public garage and the restriction on the extreme height of said buildings or structures to seventy (70') feet shall not apply to the lot or land bounded by the Riverway, Francis Street, and Brookline Avenue; and provided further, however, that for a distance of one hundred (100') feet running westerly along Commonwealth Avenue from the northwesterly and southwesterly corners of Commonwealth Avenue where it intersects with Arlington Street, Berkeley Street, Clarendon Street 
and Dartmouth Street and for a further distance of forty-seven (47') feet running westerly along the southerly side of Commonwealth Avenue from the line which is one hundred (100') feet westerly of the southwesterly corner of Commonwealth Avenue where it intersects with Arlington Street, for a total distance of one hundred forty-seven (147') feet from such corner, the following provisions shall apply, anything hereinbefore contained in this section to the contrary notwithstanding:	a.	Buildings on the corners at the Arlington Street intersection may be built to a height not exceeding two hundred eighty-five (285') feet to the top of the parapet or cornice line and buildings on the northwesterly and southwesterly corners at the Berkeley, Clarendon and Dartmouth Street intersections may be built to a height not exceeding two hundred (200') feet to the top of the parapet or cornice line;	b.	Any building or portion of a building attached to or appurtenant to a building erected or altered to a height in excess of seventy (70') feet on any of the aforementioned eight (8) corners shall be built to a height not less than fifty (50') feet;	c.	Steeples, towers, domes, balustrades, sculptured ornaments, chimneys, roofs, aerials, antennae, elevator and mechanical penthouses, water tanks, monitors or other structures normally built above the roof and not devoted to human occupancy shall not be included in the computation of height of buildings for purposes of subparagraphs a. and b. above;	d.	The prohibition of use for mercantile purposes hereinbefore contained in this section shall not apply so as to prohibit in an apartment or apartment hotel building such accessory uses as newsstand, barber shop, dining room and similar services provided they are entered solely from within the building and no signs advertising such accessory uses shall be visible on the exterior of such building;	e.	No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered on any of the aforementioned eight (8) corners without prior written approval by the Boston Redevelopment Authority of the exterior design of such building or structure. The Authority's review of such exterior design shall be concerned with such matters as the exterior facade, exterior materials,
	709
7-4	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-4
signs, the location of roof top structures described in subparagraph c. above, building mass and its placement on the site, the relation of the building to architectural characteristics of Commonwealth Avenue and the Back Bay, and adequacy of vehicular ingress and egress, if any. The purpose of this subparagraph e. is to insure that new buildings shall, without limiting the dimensions and building volume permitted herein and under applicable zoning regulations, be of outstanding architectural character and harmonious with Commonwealth Avenue and the Back Bay area.(Ord. 1923 c. 8; Ord. 1941 c.1; Ord. 1945 c. 13; Ord. 1953 c. 6 § 1; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 80; Ord. 1961 c. 9; Ord. 1962 c. 12; Ord. 1965 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 19 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 105; Ord. 1978 c. 10; Ord. 1984 c. 38; Ord. 1985 c. 1 § 2)Cross-reference:	St. 1983 c. 479; Ord. ss 9-3.3	7-4.11	Permission for Construction Near Parks or Parkways.	No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered within a distance of one hundred (100') feet from park or parkway in the City of Boston, without permission in writing having first been obtained from the Parks and Recreation Commission, except that the foregoing shall not apply to any structure now being or hereafter erected or altered on the lot of land known and numbered as 2000 Commonwealth Avenue.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 81; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. 71 § 110; Ord. 1985 c. 1 § 3)	7-4.12	Setback Requirements.	No building shall be erected or placed upon premises within the following distances from the following parks and parkways: Riverway, from Fenway to Huntington Avenue, twenty (20') feet; Jamaicaway, from Huntington Avenue to Perkins Street, twenty (20') feet; Jamaicaway, from Perkins Street to Prince Street, twenty-five (25') feet; Arborway, from Prince Street to Washington Street, twenty-five (25') feet; Arborway, north side, from Washington Street to Franklin Park, twenty-five (25') feet; Arborway, south side, from Washington Street to Franklin Park, ten (10') feet; Olmsted Park along the northwesterly boundary, from Chestnut Street to Francis Parkman Drive, twenty (20') feet; Park Drive 
on the Riverway, from Brookline Avenue to Boston and Albany Railroad, twenty (20') feet; Park Drive on the Riverway, from Boston and Albany Railroad to Beacon Street, fifteen (15') feet; Commonwealth Avenue, from Arlington Street to Beacon Street, twenty (20') feet; the Fens, twenty (20') feet (excepting Charlesgate East from Boylston Street to the Charles River, and Charlesgate West from Boston and Albany Railroad to the Charles River, and Boylston Street, south side, from Hemenway Street to Fenway); Charlesgate East from Boylston Street to Ipswich Street, ten (10') feet; and Bolyston Street, south side, from Hemenway Street to Fenway, fifteen (15') feet; provided that steps, windows, porticos, and other usual projections appurtenant to the front wall of a building shall be allowed where there is a reserved space; that no projections in the nature of a bay window, corner bay, circular front, or octagon front, with the foundation wall sustaining the same (such foundation wall being a projection of the front wall), shall be allowed (excepting oriel windows above the first story on a street corner), unless any horizontal sections of such projections would fall within  the external lines of trapezoids, the sum of whose bases upon the rear line of the aforesaid space does not exceed seven-tenths (.7) of the whole front of the building, and the base of any one of which trapezoids does not exceed eighteen (18') feet, and whose side lines make an angle of forty-five (45̊) degrees with the base; and each house in a block shall be considered a separate building within the meaning of this section; provided, however, that the provisions hereof shall not apply to the lot of land on Ipswich Street bounded by and making the northwest corner of Charlesgate West and Boylston Street. (Ord. 1949 c. 1; Ord. 1953 c. 6 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1981 c. 19 § 12; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 111)	7-4.13	Further Setback Requirements.	No building shall be erected or placed upon premises within twenty (20') feet from the exterior line of parks and parkways, on the Dorchesterway and Strandway, except from Preble Street to Old Harbor Street and except from P Street to Farragut Road; provided, that steps, windows, porticos and other usual projections appurtenant to the front wall of a building are to be allowed in this reserved space of twenty (20') feet, subject to the following limitations, viz.: First, that no projections of any kind (other than doorsteps and balustrades connected therewith, and 
	710
7-5	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-5
also piazzas projecting not more than eight (8') feet) shall extend more than five (5') feet from the rear line of the aforesaid space; second, that no projections in the nature of a bay window, corner bay, circular front, or octagon front, with the foundation wall sustaining the same (such foundation wall being a projection of the front wall), will be allowed (excepting oriel windows above the first story on a street corner), unless any horizontal sections of such projections would fall within the external lines of trapezoids, the sum of whose bases upon the rear line of the aforesaid space does not exceed seven-tenths (.7) of the whole front of the building, and the base of any one of which trapezoids does not exceed eighteen (18') feet, and whose side lines make an angle of forty-five (45̊) degrees with the base; and each house in a block shall be considered a separate building within the meaning of this limitation.(Ord. 1939 c. 3; Ord. 1949 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 112)Cross-reference:	St. 1938 c. 479 (Boston Building Code)7-5	CEMETERY DIVISION.	7-5.1	Cemetery Division.	The Commissioner of Parks and Recreation shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by statue or ordinance to be exercised and performed by the trustees of the Cemetery Division.(Ord. 1920 c. 13; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 40; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 113; Ord. 2001 c. 2)	7-5.2	Regular Cemetery Hours.	Regular cemetery hours are hereby established as 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m., and all cemeteries and burial grounds currently used for interments shall be open for interments and removals during those hours, Monday through Friday, and from 8:00 a.m. until noon on Saturday, legal holidays excepted, and at such times as the Commissioner may provide.(Ord. 1981 c. 31; Ord. 2001 c. 2)	7-5.3	Deeds for Lots; Restrictions.	a.	The Commission may determine the payments to be made for cemetery lots, each burial 
vault, and for perpetual care of said lots. The Commissioner after payment has been made to the Collector-Treasurer of the City of Boston, may execute and deliver to the person or persons by or for whom the payment has been made, a deed of the City conveying the exclusive right of burial of  human dead in, and of placing and maintaining tombs, cenotaphs, and monuments, authorized by the Commissioner, upon the lot or subdivision described in the deed, and shall cause the deed to be recorded in the office of the Parks and Recreation Department. Every conveyance shall be subject to the following restrictions, or such other regulations and restrictions relating to said cemetery or the lots therein as shall from time to time be established by the City by ordinance.	b.	Restrictions:		1.	The owner shall use the lot only for the purpose stated in his deed thereof.		2.	The owner shall not, for hire, deposit, or allow to be deposited in said lots the remains of any person.		3.	The owner shall not, without consent of the Commissioner or designee, remove or allow to be removed, the remains of any person deposited in said lot.		4.	The owner shall not, without the consent of the Commissioner, place or allow to be placed on, or remove or allow to be removed from, said lot any tomb, cenotaph, or monument, or any hedge, tree, fence, curb or other ornament.		5.	The owner shall remove from the cemetery any unauthorized structure or other thing on said lot the Commissioner may so remove at the expense of the owner any such structure or other thing, or any tree, shrubs, flower, fence, curb or other ornament not removed within the time stated in a notice from the Commissioner, and the owner shall comply with all the rules and regulations of the Commissioner relating to said cemetery or lot.		6.	The owner shall convey said lot only as a whole, and shall never divide said lot, and if there are two (2) or more owners, they shall designate in writing one of their number to represent the lot, and 
Rev. 1/30/02	711
7-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-7
while they neglect so to do the Commissioner may designate the one to represent the lot.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 114; Ord. 1990 c. 2 § 1; Ord. 2001 c. 2)	7-5.4	Agreement for Perpetual Care.	The Commissioner, after payment to the Collector-Treasurer for the City, for keeping in repair any lot in any cemetery or other burial ground owned by the City, may execute and deliver to the person by or for whom the payment has been made an agreement that the City shall keep the lot, and the structures and grass thereon, in a good and neat condition forever, or during the period specified in the agreement, so far as the same can be done by the expenditure of the amount equal to four percent (4%) per year of the amount of money so paid from the time of such payment. The Commissioner shall cause all such agreements to be faithfully carried out.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 41; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 19 § 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 115; Ord. 2001 c. 2)7-6	FREEDOM TRAIL COMMISSION.	No Ordinances Apply. See Special Statutes.(CBC 1975 Ord. T7)7-7	TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT.Cross-reference:	Commissioner appointed under St. 7 s. 200	7-7.1	Establishment of Department.	There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Transportation Department, as provided in the charter as that term is defined in clause Fifth of Section 7 of Chapter 4 of the General Laws.(Ord. 1960 c. 10 § 1; Ord. 1962 c. 9 §§ 4, 5, 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 24 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 200)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 4 § 7 Clause Fifth	7-7.2	Commissioner to Place Street Signs.	The Commissioner of Transportation shall place and maintain in one or more suitable, 
conspicuous places, to be selected by him, on each street in the City, one or more signs showing the name of the street.(Ord. 1962 c. 9 §§ 4, 5, 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 24 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 201) Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 8-7.1; Ord. Section 11-6Editor's Note:	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of the	  Acts of 1986.	7-7.3	Removal of Stolen Motor Vehicles.	The Transportation Commission, by any rule or regulation adopted under this section, may authorize, with such limitations, if any, as the Commission may think proper, the Police Commissioner of the City, or such sergeants or officers of higher rank in the Police Department of the City as he may from time to time designate, to remove to some convenient place, through the agency of a person or persons in the employ of the Police Department of the City, or by an independent contractor selected on the basis of competitive bids invited by advertisement in the City Record, as said Police Commissioner shall from time to time determine, any stolen or misappropriated motor vehicle when the owner of record has requested such removal. Any rule or regulation adopted under this section shall be in no way inconsistent with Chapter 263 of the Acts of 1929, as amended.(Ord. 1973 c. 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 202)Cross-reference:	st. 1929 c. 263; St. T11 § 25Editor's Note: 	The powers and duties of the Traffic and	  Parking Commission, the Traffic and Parking	  Commissioner and the Traffic and Parking	  Department were assumed by the	  Transportation Commission, the	  Transportation Commissioner and the	  Transportation Department respectively	  under the provisions of s. 20 of Ch. 608 of	  the Acts of 1986.
Rev. 1/30/02	712
7-7	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-7
	7-7.4	Use of Traffic Control Signal			Violation Monitoring System			Devices.	(a)	The City of Boston shall employ a traffic control signal violation monitoring system along any portion of any ways within its control and shall impose a penalty on the owner of a motor vehicle for failure by the operator thereof to comply with the laws, codes, regulations, ordinances, rules and/or other forms of legislation governing the traffic control signals at which a traffic control signal violation monitoring system is located.	(b)	The following words shall, unless the content clearly indicates otherwise, have the following meanings:	Citation shall mean a notice upon which a police officer shall record an occurrence involving all automobile law violations by the person cited. Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in such form and such parts as determined jointly by the administrative justice of the district court department and the registrar.	Motor vehicle  shall have the meaning provided in section 1 of chapter 90 of the General Laws.	Operator shall have the meaning provided in section 1 of chapter 90 of the General Laws.	Owner shall have the meaning provided in section 1 of chapter 90 of the General Laws.	Registrar shall mean the registrar of motor vehicles.	Scheduled assessment shall mean the amount of the civil assessment for a particular civil motor vehicle infraction, as established jointly by the chief justice of the district court department and the registrar. A scheduled assessment shall not exceed the maximum assessment or fine established by law for each such violation. A schedule of such assessments shall be visibly posted in each office of the registry of motor vehicles and in the clerk-magistrate's office of each district court.	Traffic control signal violation monitoring system shall mean an automated motor vehicle sensor
device installed to work in conjunction with a traffic control signal which produces two (2) or more wet-film photographs, two (2) or more digital photographs, two (2) or more microphotographs, or other recorded images of each motor vehicle at the time it is used or operated in a manner that is in violation of the traffic control signal at which the automated monitoring system is located. The photographs, microphotographs, or other recorded images must record the rear of the motor vehicle, with at least one (1) image recording the motor vehicle passing through the intersection in violation of the traffic control signal. Additionally, at least one (1) of the images must clearly identify the registration plate of the motor vehicle.	Violator shall mean a person, corporation, society, association or partnership accused of an automobile law violation.	(c) 1.	No traffic control signal violation monitoring system shall be utilized in such a manner as to take a frontal view photograph of the motor vehicle that is in violation of the traffic control signal or to take a rear view photograph of the vehicle above the bottom of the rear window.		2.	No photographs, microphotographs, or other recorded images taken in conformance with this act shall be discoverable in any judicial or administrative proceeding other than a proceeding held pursuant to this section; and no photographs, microphotographs, or other recorded images taken in conformance with this section shall be admissible in any judicial or administrative proceeding other than in a proceeding to adjudicate liability for such violation of this section.		3.	Other than for purposes of enforcement of a violation of this section or for purposes of an owner defending a violation of this section, no private entity or individual may obtain photographs, microphotographs, or other recorded images or records taken pursuant to this section.		4.	Photographic and other recorded evidence obtained through the use of automated enforcement devices deployed as a means of promoting traffic safety authorized herein within the City of Boston shall be destroyed within one (1) year of final disposition of any recorded event.
Rev. 1/28/08 Supp. 7	712-1
7-7	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-7
	(d)	1. The parking clerk designated or appointed by the City shall supervise and coordinate the administration of traffic control signal violation monitoring systems and the delivery of the photographic materials to the Police Department.		2.	After inspection of photographs, microphotographs, or other recorded images produced by a traffic control signal violation monitoring system and delivered by the parking clerk, a police officer authorized to issue citations for violations of traffic signals at the subject intersection shall issue a citation in the manner provided in sections 2 and 3 of chapter 90C of the General Laws.		3.	It shall be the duty of the Police Department to deliver the citation to the registered owner or owners of any motor vehicle identified in any photographs, microphotographs, streaming video or other recorded images produced by such device as evidence of a violation pursuant to this section. Such citation shall contain but not be limited to the following information: a copy of the aforementioned recorded images showing the vehicle in violation of the traffic signal, the registration number and state of issuance of said registration number of the vehicle; the date, time and intersection location of the violation; the specific violation charged; a schedule of fines for such violation as established by the city or town; instructions for the return of the notice; and text as follows; "This notice may be returned personally, by mail, or by an agent authorized in writing. A hearing before a magistrate of the district court may be obtained upon the written request of the registered owner in writing. Failure to obey this notice within 20 days of issuance will result in the non-renewal or suspension of the license to drive and/or the certificate of registration of the registered owner."		4.	In the case of a citation involving a motor vehicle registered under the laws of the Commonwealth, such citation shall be mailed within fourteen (14) days of the violation, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, to the address of the registered owner or owners as listed in the records of the registrar of motor vehicles. In the case of any motor vehicle registered under the laws of another state or country, such notice of citation shall be mailed within twenty-one (21) days of the violation, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, to the address of the registered owner or owners as listed in the records of the official
in such state or country having charge of the registration of such motor vehicle. If said address is unavailable, it shall be sufficient for the Police Department to mail the notice of citation to the official in such state or country having charge of the registration of such motor vehicle.		5.	Any motor vehicle owner to whom a citation has been issued pursuant to this act may admit responsibility for such violation and pay the fine provided therein. Payment shall be made by mailing both payment and citation to the registrar at the address indicated on the citation or by appearing before the registrar during normal business hours, either personally or through a duly authorized agent. Payment by mail shall be made only by money order, credit card or check made out to the registrar. Payment of the established fine and any applicable penalties shall operate as a final disposition of the case. Payment of the fine by one motor vehicle owner shall be satisfaction of the fine as to all other motor vehicle owners of the same motor vehicle for the same violation.		6.	Any owner to whom a citation has been issued may within twenty (20) days of the mailing of said citation request a hearing to contest liability, by making a signed request on the back of the citation and mailing such citation to the registrar at the address indicated on the citation, or by appearing before the registrar during regular business hours, personally or through a duly authorized agent. Upon receipt of hearing request, in accordance with section 3 of chapter 90C of the General Laws, the registrar shall notify the clerk-magistrate in the district court in judicial district in which the violation occurred of such request for a hearing. The clerk-magistrate shall send written notice of the date, time and place of said hearing by first class mail to each registered owner and the police officer who issued the citation. The hearing shall be conducted by a clerk-magistrate or justice in accordance with section 3 of chapter 90C of the General Laws. If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the violator is found responsible, the clerk-magistrate or justice shall order the violator to pay an assessment to the registrar, which shall not exceed the scheduled assessment for the infraction.		7.	Any owner to whom a citation has been issued shall not be liable for a violation under the provisions of this section: (1) if the violation was necessary to allow the passage of an emergency
Rev. 1/28/08 Supp.7	712-27-7	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-7
vehicle; (2) if the violation was necessary in order to protect the property or person of another; (3) if the violation was incurred while participating in a funeral procession; (4) if the violation was incurred during a period of time in which the motor vehicle was reported to the police department of any state, city or town as having been stolen and had not been recovered prior to the time the violation occurred; (5) if the operator of the motor vehicle was operating the motor vehicle under a rental or lease agreement and the owner of the motor vehicle is a rental or leasing company and has complied with the provisions of section 20E of chapter 90 of the General Laws; (6) if the violation was necessary to comply with any other law or regulation governing the operation of a motor vehicle at the intersection. An owner disputing a citation under this section shall, within twenty (20) days, provide the registrar with the citation with a signed request for a hearing on the back and a signed affidavit stating: (1) the reason for disputing the violation; (2) the full legal name and address of the owner of the motor vehicle; (3) the full legal name and address of the operator of the motor vehicle at the time the violation occurred; (4) the names and addresses of all witnesses supporting the owner's defense and the specifics of their knowledge; and where applicable (5) signed statements from witnesses.		8.	The consequences for an owner to whom a citation has been issued who fails to pay the fine provided for in said notice in accordance with subsection (5), or fails to appear for a requested hearing in accordance with subsection (6) or (7), or fails to receive a favorable adjudication of said citation at a hearing, or fails to pay the assessment or fine imposed by the clerk-magistrate or justice in subsection (6), are as follows: upon notification of such failure to the registrar, the registrar shall notify the violator that after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of notification until the fine or assessment and any applicable late fees are paid, the registrar shall not issue or renew or may suspend such owner's license to operate a motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle registration.	(e)	1.	For each violation the owner or owners of a vehicle shall be fined the maximum scheduled assessment for the infraction of a red light violation.
		2.	All penalties may be increased by up to thirty-three and one-third percent (33⅓%) if said fine remains unpaid in excess of thirty (30) days after a citation has been issued.		3.	A penalty imposed for a violation shall not be deemed a criminal conviction.	(f)	The compensation paid to the manufacturer or vendor of the traffic control signal monitoring system deployed as a means of promoting traffic safety as authorized herein shall not be based upon the number of traffic citations issued or any portion or percentage of the fine generated by such citations. The compensation paid to such manufacturer or vendor of the equipment shall he based upon the value of such equipment and the services provided or rendered in support of the traffic control signal monitoring system.	(g)	If any of the provisions of this section, or the application of such provision to any persons or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the remainder thereof, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those wherein it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.(Ord. 2007 c.12 §§ 1 - 7)
Rev. 1/28/08 Supp. 7	712-3
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	Rev. 1/28/08 Supp. 7	712-4
7-8	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-87-8	MOTOR VEHICLE MANAGEMENT BUREAU.	7-8.1	Division Established; Duties.	A Division to be known as the Motor Vehicle Management Bureau (herein referred to as MVMB) shall be established in the Property Management Department.	The MVMB shall be responsible for the acquisition by purchase or otherwise and for the assignment, maintenance and disposal for all motor vehicles owned by, or leased, loaned or otherwise provided to the City, excepting vehicles owned or leased by the Fire or Police Departments, which Police or Fire Department vehicles shall not be used except for the purposes of said Department.(Ord. 1979 c. 33; Ord. 1996 c. 6)Editor's Note: 	Ordinance No. 1996 c. 6 which transferred the	  Motor Vehicle Management Bureau to the	  Property Management Department further	  provided that the Motor Vehicle Management	  Bureau may be further transferred to the	  Public Works Department at the direction of	  the Mayor.	7-8.2	Director, Additional Staff.	The MVMB shall be headed by a Director who shall be appointed by the Commissioner of Property Management in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 31 of the General Laws of Massachusetts.	Additional staff of the MVMB shall be appointed in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 31 in like manner by the Commissioner of Property Management when the Commissioner of Property Management deems the workload warrants such additional personnel.(Ord. 1979 c. 33; Ord. 1996 c. 6)	7-8.3 	Requests.	All Department requests for new vehicles or allocation or assignment of existing vehicles or optional equipment for such vehicles shall be received by the Director of the MVMB and either approved or disapproved by said Director.(Ord. 1979 c. 33)
	7-8.4	Motor Vehicle List.	The Director annually as of April 1 shall compile a list of all said City motor vehicles owned, leased or otherwise used by the City denoting the Department to which assigned, the vehicle's make, model, engine size, optional equipment, registration, and the individual assigned to the vehicle. Said list shall be kept on file at the MVMB and be open for public inspection during the regular business hours, and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the City Council on or before the following April 15.(Ord. 1979 c. 33)	7-8.5	Off Duty Use.	No such City-owned, leased, or otherwise used vehicles shall be assigned or allowed to be used by any employee when such person is off duty or not on authorized commutation. Persons authorized to use vehicles for commutation shall be recommended by respective Department Heads who shall certify in writing, giving specific reasons, why said Department Head finds the use of such vehicles for commutation purposes to be in the City's and public's interest.(Ord. 1979 c. 33)	7-8.6	Garaging of Vehicles.	Except by specific written authorization of the Director, no vehicle is to be garaged outside of the City on a regular basis.(Ord. 1979 c. 33)	7-8.7	Rules and Regulations.	In order to implement this ordinance the Director shall be empowered and directed to make and publish rules and regulations consistent herewith.(Ord. 1979 c. 33)	7-8.8	Credit Card Use.	No City Agency or Office shall be authorized to use credit cards for purchase of fuel or automotive supplies and services for said vehicles unless expressly so authorized by ordinance.(Ord. 1979 c. 33)	713
7-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-9
7-9	ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION.	7-9.1	Commissioner; Appointment, Term, Compensation, Etc.	There shall be in the City a Commission, known as the Animal Control Commission, consisting of the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, the Police Commissioner, and the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, or their respective designees, the Dog Officer or the President of the Domestic Charitable Corporation from time to time performing by contract the duties of Dog Officer in accordance with Section 151 of Chapter 140 of the General Laws, or the designee of such Dog Officer or of the president of such corporation, and nine (9) persons appointed by the Mayor from the public at large each for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial election at which a Mayor is elected. At least one of the persons so appointed by the Mayor shall be a registered veterinarian authorized to practice veterinary medicine in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Any vacancy in the office of a member of the Commission shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. Members of the Commission are hereby classified as special municipal employees for the purposes of Chapter 268A of the General Laws.	The Mayor shall from time to time designate one of the members of the Commission as Chairman. The Commission shall elect a Vice-Chairman by majority vote. The Mayor shall designate a full-time executive secretary of the Commission. Subject to the availability of an appropriation therefor, the Commission may appoint such additional officers, agents, or servants as may be necessary to enable it to perform its duties.(Ord. 1972 c. 16 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 300)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-7.1; Ord. ss 5-5.6; Ord. ss 14-5.1;	  G.L. c. 140 § 151; G.L. c. 268A.
	7-9.2	Powers and Duties of Commission.	The Animal Control Commission shall meet at least once each month; shall coordinate to the fullest extent possible the work of all public and private agencies concerned with animal care, protection, and control; shall effect an ongoing dialogue and exchange of views between and among such agencies; may conduct either independently or in conjunction with any appropriate person or agency, public or private, such educational programs relating to animal control as it shall deem necessary or desirable; shall collect and publish statistics relating to the animal population of the City; shall determine the City's needs in connection with animal control; shall prepare and may from time to time amend a long-range plan to meet such needs; shall prepare estimates of the cost of executing such plan and the several component measures thereof; shall recommend to the appropriate boards and officers of the City such actions as may be necessary for the implementation of such plan; and shall monitor the carrying out of such actions.(Ord. 1972 c. 16 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 301)	7-9.3	Animal Spay and Neuter Clinic.	The Animal Control Commission shall establish and maintain a clinic in the City at one or more locations for the purpose of offering to residents the services commonly called spaying and neutering of animals, and which shall be known as the Boston Animal Spay and Neuter Clinic. The clinic shall be under the charge of a Director, who shall be a registered veterinarian authorized to practice veterinary medicine in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Fees for the services of the clinic shall be fixed by ordinance. Any person seeking such service shall in writing certify his ownership of the animal, shall in writing agree to hold harmless the Director and employees of the clinic, and the City for any death of or injury to such animal. Any dog not licensed shall be licensed prior to being retrieved by its owner. Any animal not retrieved by its owner may be disposed of by the Director in accordance with the provisions of Section 151A of Chapter 140 of the General Laws except by use of firearms.(Ord. 1975 c. 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T7 § 302)
	714
7-10	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-10
7-10	ESTABLISHING FOR A LIMITED TIME A SPECIAL COMMISSION TO BE KNOWN AS THE ALLSTON/BRIGHTON COMMONWEALTH AVENUE COMMISSION.	7-10.1	Commission Established.	There shall be within the City a Commission to be known as the Allston/Brighton Commonwealth Avenue Commission. The said Commission shall consist of the Commissioner of Traffic and Parking, the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, that member of the City Council for the time being elected from the district which includes the greatest portion of wards twenty-one and twenty-two, and the General Manager of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, or their respective designees, all ex officio, and one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Brighton Historical Society, one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Allston Civic Association, one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Brighton Allston Improvement Association, one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the South Allston Neighborhood Association, one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Circle/Reservoir Association, one (1) person appointed by Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Allston-Brighton Community Beautification Council, one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Corey Hill Neighborhood Association, one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Washington Heights Citizens Association, and one (1) person appointed by the Mayor from two (2) nominees of the Boston Society of Landscape Architects. Those members appointed by the Mayor shall be classified as special municipal employees for the purposes of Chapter 268 of the General Laws.(Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 1)	7-10.2	Organization of Commission; Meetings.	The said Commission shall organize and choose from among its membership a Chairman and Secretary, to serve as such at the pleasure of the Commission. Members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for expenses 
necessarily incurred. The Commission shall meet at least monthly, the time and place of such meetings to be set so as to maximize the ability of persons living and working in Allston and Brighton to participate in Commission deliberations.(Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 2)	7-10.3	Duties of the Commission.	The said Commission shall make investigations, inquiries and studies relative to the preservation and improvement of that part of Commonwealth Avenue lying west of the intersection of Brighton Avenue and within the City, including amenities pertaining to the buildings abutting the said avenue and the first two blocks of intersecting streets. The said avenue and buildings are hereinafter referred to as the 'study area.' In their work the said Commission shall be mindful of the original plan of Frederick Law Olmsted for the avenue.(Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 3)	7-10.4	Purpose.	The Commission shall examine sources of funding, private, public, and charitable, for improvements to the study area, and shall develop a plan for the area and a strategy for execution of the same, which may include changes in zoning, use patterns, height restrictions, traffic patterns, installation of trees, plantings, benches, historical markers, lighting fixtures and all manner of street furniture, but this listing shall not be exclusive. In so doing, the commission shall consult with, and coordinate its efforts with, all public agencies involved with planning, zoning, transportation, traffic, and similar activities within the study area.(Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 4)	7-10.5	Cooperation with Other Departments; Boards and Agencies.	All Departments, Boards and Agencies of the City shall cooperate with the Commission in its activities. No Department, Board or Agency of the City shall take any action, except those immediately necessary to preserve the public health, safety, or order, within the study area until it has given notice thereof to the Commission and allowed reasonable time and opportunity for the Commission to comment thereupon. Action as used herein shall mean any 
	715
7-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-12
physical change and any so-called 'sign-off' allowing another public body to make such a change. (Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 5)	7-10.6	Annual Report. 	The said Commission shall, at least annually and upon its dissolution, make a report to the Mayor and City Council with respect to its activities and the study area.(Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 6)	7-10.7	Expiration. 	This section shall expire three (3) years following the day the first of those members appointed by the Mayor shall take the required oath of office.(Ord. 1986 c. 22 § 7)7-11	CLEAN CITY COMMISSION.	a.	There shall be within the City a Commission, to be known as the Clean City Commission, consisting of the Commissioners of the Public Works Department, Inspectional Services Department and Parks and Recreation Commission and the Office of Service Management, or their respective designees, and not less than five (5) others, each appointed by the Mayor, to represent the business community, and neighborhood, civic and park enhancement organizations located in the City of Boston.	b.	The Commission shall annually elect from its membership a Chairman and a Secretary.	c.	All members shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor without compensation and shall be deemed special municipal employees.	d.	The said Commission shall evaluate public and private efforts to improve the cleanliness of the City and comparable efforts in other cities, and from time to time make reports and recommendations concerning programs to combat unlawful dumping, littering, improper storage and disposal of waste, and like matters. The Commission shall operate as a, separate agency of the City, but shall make reports only through the Director of Administrative Services. 
The said Director shall make available to the Commission reasonable clerical assistance.	e.	Subject to acceptance of the same by the Mayor and City Council, the said Commission shall have authority to expend gifts, grants, and grants in aid for the purposes given.(Ord. 1987 c. 3 § 1)7-12	ENVIRONMENTAL ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT COMMISSION.	a.	There shall be within the City a Commission, to be known as the Environmental Ordinance Enforcement Commission which shall consist of the Commissioners of the Public Works Department, Inspectional Services Department, Parks and Recreation Commission, Police Department, the Real Property Commission, and the Office of Service Management, or their respective designees, ex officio, and, a representative of the Office of Neighborhood Services appointed by the Mayor to serve at his pleasure.	b.	Members shall serve without compensation and shall be deemed special municipal employees.	c.	The Commission shall concern itself with the enforcement of ordinances, rules and regulations which have been designated for enforcement under the provisions of section 21D of Chapter 40 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth, and shall study the enforcement of other ordinances, rules and regulations of the City which are liable for designation for alternative non-criminal enforcement. The Commission shall exist as a separate budgetary unit of the City, attached to the Office of Neighborhood Services, but shall report to the Mayor.	d.	A copy of each report and study made by the Commission shall be filed with the City Clerk and transmitted by the Clerk to the City Council.	e.	The Commission shall, subject to acceptance and/or appropriation by the Mayor and City Council expend such monies (including gifts, grants, and grants in aid) as are made available, for the purposes designated.
	716
7-13	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-13
	f.	The Commission shall, subject to approval of the Mayor, employ a person to be known as the Director of Ordinance Enforcement, who, together with the Director's agents employees and designees, and together with all others authorized in the ordinances, shall have authority to enforce all of the Environmental Ordinances of the City under the provisions of said Section 21D, or by criminal complaint. Such of these persons as the Police Commissioner shall appoint as Special Police Officers shall have, in addition, authority to enforce all violations authorized by the said Police Commissioner.	g.	Any such person doing the same or similar work in another Department or Agency who is transferred to the Commission shall retain all benefits, seniority, sick leave, vacation leave, and the like, as if their service were continuous in the prior department of agency.(Ord. 1987 c. 3 § 2)7-13	RECYCLING PROGRAM.	7-13.1	Recycling Program Established.	Pursuant to G.L. C. 40, S 8H, there is hereby established in the City of Boston a recycling program the requirements of which are set forth herein.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 1)	7-13.2	Purposes.	The purpose of the recycling program is to define goals and mechanisms for maximizing the percentage of Boston's residential solid waste which is recycled. The program will further seek to facilitate greater recycling levels within the commercial sector, and identify ways in which the City's purchasing policies can encourage recycling.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 2)	7-13.3	Definitions.	 When used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meanings:	a.	Aluminum shall mean any can, container, foil wrapping or product composed solely of aluminum.
	b.	City shall mean the City of Boston.	c.	Commissioner shall mean the Commissioner of the Public Works Department of the City of Boston or that person's designee.	d.	Department shall mean the Public Works Department of the City of Boston.	e.	District shall mean waste collection districts as defined by the Commissioner.	f.	Glass container shall mean any bottle, jar, or other container composed of glass, but not including containers composed of ceramic.	g.	Materials recovery facility shall mean a processing plant that receives as input a stream of recyclable material separated from municipal solid waste.	h.	Metal can shall mean any container composed of metal, including, but not limited to, any such container commonly used for beverages and food.	i.	Paper shall mean any non-soiled paper, including, but not limited to, newspaper, mixed paper, and corrugated cardboard.	j.	Plastic container shall mean any bottle, carton, lid or tube composed of rigid plastic.	k.	Recyclables shall mean materials that have the potential to be recycled and which are not commingled with solid waste or contaminated by significant amounts of toxic substances, including but not limited to aluminum, glass containers, metal containers, paper, plastic containers and yard waste.	l.	Recycling shall mean to recover materials or by-products:		1.	Which are to be reused; or		2.	Which are to be employed as an ingredient or a feedstock in an industrial or manufacturing process to make a product; or		3.	Which are to be employed in a particular function or application as an effective 
	717
7-13	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-13
substitute for a commercial product or commodity (other than as a substitute for fuel). “Recycle” does not mean to recover energy from the combustion of a material.	m.	Residential owner shall mean a person who owns or is in control of residential premises.	n.	Residential premises shall mean any house, building or other structure used for dwelling purposes which receives waste collection service from the City.	o.	Residential wastestream shall mean all solid waste which the City is responsible for collecting from residential premises.	p.	Set out container shall mean any container composed of weatherproof material such as plastic or metal as defined by the Commissioner.	q.	Solid waste shall mean garbage, refuse or other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material, resulting from residential or commercial activities.	r.	Yard waste shall mean grass, leaves, tree and brush cuttings and similar material.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 3)	7-13.4	Recycling Mechanisms.	a.	On a schedule to be determined by the Commissioner, residential premises designated by the Commissioner shall be separate specified recyclables from all other solid waste that they deposit at the curb or other pickup locations for collection and shall place said recyclables in set-out containers for collection. The Department shall arrange for the collection of all said recyclables either through requirements of the regular district waste collection contract or through such other arrangements as the Commissioner determines to be most advantageous to the City.	b.	The Commissioner shall develop and implement alternative recycling programs for residential premises where, in the judgment of the Commissioner, a curbside collection program is not feasible for either a specified geographic area or for specific classes of residences.
	c.	The Commissioner shall develop public education programs to maximize the separation and collection of recyclables. The Department may implement these programs in conjunction with the Boston Public Schools, Neighborhood Councils, community groups, private schools, businesses, labor organizations, and other interested or affected parties. The education programs may include flyers, print and electronic media, public events, or any other promotional techniques which the Commissioner determines will assure the greatest level of compliance with the provisions of this section. Such programs shall begin at least one (1) month before the effective date of separation requirements for specified residential premises, or a month before the start of operation of any alternative programs.	d.	The Commissioner may adopt rules and regulations to further the effective implementation of recycling programs.	e.	The Commissioner shall determine the most cost effective and appropriate means to bring about the construction and operation of a materials recovery facility or other similar facility to ensure adequate capacity for processing recyclables collected by the Department and its contractors under this section. The Commissioner shall report the initial findings of this evaluation to the Mayor not later than July 1, 1991; and shall at that time seek whatever authority may be necessary to authorize the procurement and/or construction of such facility. The commissioner may from time to time conduct additional evaluations of this nature in light of changing market conditions and shall report in a timely manner to the Mayor the results of such evaluations.	f.	The Commissioner shall ensure that all separation and collection programs and all contracts for separation, collection, and disposal are consistent with all state and federal solid waste laws and regulations, including but not limited to, 310 CMR 19:017: “Waste Control”.	g.	The Citywide targets as defined throughout this section shall describe the total amount of recycling of the residential wastestream occurring within the City at the relevant point in time. This shall include the results obtained through recycling of returnable plastic, glass, and metal containers which are returned 
	718
7-13	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-13
for deposit. The Commissioner shall prepare by July 1, 1991 a standard methodology consistent with that of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection for quantifying the recycling results for returnable containers, and shall utilize that methodology annually in the preparation of reports required by this section on the results of the recycling program.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 4)	7-13.5	Recycling Targets and Contracts.	a.	Through the mechanisms described above, the Department shall ensure that at least twenty-eight (28%) percent by weight of the residential wastestream is recycled citywide during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1992; at least thirty-eight (38%) percent during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1995; and at least fifty (50%) percent during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1998; assuming that the Department is able to secure access to a State funded or private materials recovery facility or facility or facilities with equivalent capabilities by the applicable date. At a minimum, the Department shall institute various separation and collection programs geographically located in each of its districts to recycle aluminum, newspaper, plastic containers, metal cans, glass containers, and yard waste in order to meet the first citywide target. The Department shall implement such programs with the goal of maximizing participation and the percentage of the wastestream by weight that is recycled within each district. In areas where participation and diversion rates are lower than the citywide rates, the Department shall focus extra resources to develop alternative educational and collection approaches in order to attempt to bring such rates up to the citywide rates. In order to meet the later targets, the Department may add additional recyclables as the Commissioner determines their recycling to be feasible.	b.	If, after diligent effort to secure access to a materials recovery facility or similar facility or facilities providing the required recycling capacity, said capacity remains unavailable as of the first of the above target dates, the Commissioner shall notify the Mayor of the lack of capacity. Upon such notification, the Department shall nevertheless ensure that at least twenty (20%) percent by weight of the residential wastestream is recycled citywide during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1992. The Department shall 
continue its efforts to secure access to the required recycling capacity as described above; if it remains unavailable, upon notification to the Mayor, the Department shall nevertheless ensure that at least twenty-five (25%) percent by weight of the residential wastestream is recycled during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1995; and thirty-five (36%) percent during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1998. If, at any time between these dates, access is secured to the required recycling capacity, the higher target specified in paragraph a. shall apply.	c.	The Commissioner is hereby authorized, in conformity with all applicable laws, to seek requests for proposals, and to advertise for, award, and supervise contracts in such a way as to further the effectiveness of the Recycling Program. In carrying out said powers and duties, the Commissioner shall consider taking and is authorized to take the following actions:		1.	Preparing a model request for proposals and issue contracts pursuant to this section which shall mandate that any company contracted to collect the City's solid waste shall recycle a specified percentage of waste which the Commissioner determines is necessary to meet the targets defined in paragraph a. or paragraph b., if applicable. The Commissioner may set lower targets for a contractor in cases where the Department has instituted other recycling programs in that contractor's district;		2.	Including in the model request for proposals monetary or other incentives for exceeding the percentage of solid waste that a contract guarantees shall be recycled and monetary or other penalties for failing to meet the percentage of solid waste that a contract guarantees shall be recycled;		3.	Electing, for a district where the Department has instituted special arrangements to recycle one (1) or more materials which effectively remove those materials from the waste being handled by the district waste collection contractor, to reduce the recycling percentage requirement for that contract by an amount not to exceed a reasonable projection of the diversion percentage to be attained by the special arrangements. Such percentage shall be based either on actual results obtained in a previous year or on a specifically documented calculation of projected results which shall specify the assumed percentage of 
	719
7-13	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-13
the overall wastestream, the participation rate, and the actual materials capture rate. The Department shall maintain a database of total waste quantities and amounts diverted by recycling programs in order to support the above calculations when they are necessary;		4.	Not extending a contract or making a new contract for solid waste collection beyond July 1, 1992 unless the extension includes the applicable provisions of subparagraphs 1. through 3. herein;		5.	Including in such contracts and extensions as described herein provisions which allow the Commissioner to terminate the contract with, withhold payment to, or reduce the payment to a company if said company fails to satisfy the provisions of that contract regarding recycling requirements. The Commissioner may establish a rate of monetary or other incentive or penalty based on the amount above or below the recycling percentage guaranteed by a contract;		6.	Prohibiting any company found by a court or agency with jurisdiction to be in violation of the environmental protection provisions of any Massachusetts law from contracting with the City for collection or removal of solid waste or recyclables for a period of up to three (3) years following the finding.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 5)	7-13.6	Enforcement and Incentives.	a.	No residential owner who participates in the City's recycling program shall place nonrecyclable materials in set out containers. The City may discontinue its pick up of any such owner's recyclables following two (2) written warnings. When a residential owner demonstrates compliance with this section to the Commissioner by placing recyclable materials in set out containers, the City shall resume collection of said owner's recyclables.	b.	The Commissioner may develop alternative enforcement actions where, in the judgment of the Commissioner, such action is appropriate.	c.	The Commissioner may create an incentive program for participation in the recycling program, 
including but not limited to a “recycling lottery”, in which individuals or neighborhoods as defined by the Commissioner are awarded cash prizes or other awards for correctly separating solid waste in accordance with the recycling program's needs as defined by the Commissioner.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 6)	7-13.7	Reporting Requirements.	a.	The Commissioner shall prepare an analysis of the recycling program including but not limited to rates of participation and volume and weight of the components of the waste stream successfully recycled, and the net cost of the City's solid waste management system. The Commissioner shall prepare by July 1, 1991 a methodology for calculating and presenting the City's net cost of its solid waste management. Such analysis shall be reported to the Mayor within two (2) months after the end of each fiscal year, once the citywide recycling program has begun. Such reports shall list the actual percentage of recycling attained for each district for the past year, including contractor performance as measured against the targets established pursuant to subsection 7-13.5c,1. above, the results of any alternative programs, and the City's net cost for its solid waste management system, as well as projections of each of these items for the coming year.	b.	The Commissioner shall prepare proposals for increasing participation in the recycling program and shall include an analysis of the merits of user fees, mandatory participation and sanctions.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 7)	7-13.8	Commercial Recycling.	The Director of the Environment Department shall, within six (6) months of the effective date of this section, adopt and implement regulations to ensure a substantial increase in the quantity of office waste paper recycled in Boston. The Director shall also research the feasibility of expanding this program to other recyclable materials and make recommendations as necessary to the Mayor.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 8)
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	720
7-13	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-13
	7-13.8.1	Commercial Recycling Requirements for Waste Haulers.	7-13.8.2	Purpose.	It is the intent of this section to maintain and expand Boston's recycling initiative by ensuring that all businesses have access to recycling programs. Requiring haulers to offer recycling to commercial businesses will increase accountability for solid waste disposal. This will result in increased compliance with the Massachusetts Waste Ban by haulers and businesses and a reduction of unnecessary disposal of usable raw materials.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.8.3	Definitions.	When used in this section only, unless a contrary intention clearly appears, the following terms shall have the following meanings:	Commissioner means the Commissioner of Public Works of the City of Boston, or such person as said Commissioner may delegate.	Hauler means any public or private solid waste collector.	Recyclables means materials that are restricted from disposal and transfer for disposal at solid waste facilities in Massachusetts pursuant to 310 CMR 19.017. These Waste Ban items include: leaf and yard waste, tires, white goods, metal, glass and plastic containers, paper and cathode ray tubes, asphalt pavement, brick, concrete, metal, wood.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.8.4	Permitted Haulers to Comply.	As a precondition to receiving a permit from the Commissioner pursuant to CBC 23-1, all haulers shall offer all commercial solid waste customers the services of collecting and properly disposing of recyclables. The Commissioner shall require all haulers to sign an affidavit certifying that they are in compliance with this section as a condition of said permitting application process.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)
	7-13.8.5	Alternative Procedure.	If any hauler affected by this section is unable to offer recycling services to all commercial customers, said hauler may, in the alternative, petition the Commissioner to approve an alternative procedure for offering recyclable services. The Commissioner shall have the discretion to grant a permit pursuant to CBC 23-1 upon determining that the hauler is unable to comply with subsection 7-13.8.4 and said hauler has established an adequate alternate recycling service procedure, including but not limited to, establishing a partnership with another hauler to offer recycling services to commercial customers.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.8.6	Education.	a.	All haulers affected by this section shall provide its commercial customers with informational materials detailing its recycling services and educational materials regarding recycling.	b.	Upon filing for an initial or renewal hauler permit, all haulers affected by this section shall provide the Commissioner with an annual report that contains the following information for the preceding fiscal year: (i) the total number of commercial customers; (ii) the number and total percentage of commercial customers that utilize the hauler's recycling service; (iii) the total amount of solid waste tonnage collected and the total amount of recyclables collected; and (iv) a description of its customer education materials related to recycling services.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.8.7	Enforcement.	The Commissioner shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall have the authority to issue regulations for the purpose of enforcement.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.8.8	Penalties.	Failure to offer recycling services under CBC 7-13.8.5, failure to obtain alternate procedure approval from the Commissioner under CBC 7-13.8.5, or failure to comply with the education requirements in CBC 7-13.8.6 shall result in a one hundred fifty ($150.00)
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp.8	720.1
7-13	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-13
dollar fine for the first violation, three hundred ($300.00) dollar for the second violation, and on a third violation the hauler's permit will be revoked by the Commissioner. A hauler may appeal to the Commissioner to have the permit re-issued and the Commissioner shall re-issue said permit once the hauler provides sufficient proof that it is in compliance with the provisions of this section. Nothing in this section shall interfere with the Commissioner's authority to suspend or revoke a permit for any other reason allowed by law.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.8.9	Severability.	If any provision of these sections or the application of these sections to any person or circumstance shall be held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remainder of these sections and the applicability of such sections to other persons or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.8.10	Implementation.	The provisions of these sections shall be effective March 1, 2009.(Ord. 2008 c. 14)	7-13.9	Purchasing Policy.	The City Purchasing Agent shall, within six (6) months of effective date of this section research the feasibility of revising procurement specifications in 

Rev. 2/18/09 Supp.8	720.27-13	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-13Aorder to establish a preference for those products containing recycled materials, wherever feasible, and shall recommend appropriate purchasing policy amendments to the Mayor.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 9)	7-13.10	Fiscal Constraints.	Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to require the City to increase its net costs incurred for solid waste management.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 10)	7-13.11	Severability.	If any provisions of this section shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision or subsection shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions or subsections of this section, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 1990 c. 9 § 11)7-13A	ACCESS TO RECYCLING PROGRAMS AND SERVICES — LARGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS WITH MORE THAN SIX (6) UNITS.	7-13A.1	Purpose.	These sections supplement the recycling program established in subsection 7-13.1 et seq. and pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 8H by expanding the residential recycling program to include access for the residents of large residential buildings. Large residential buildings have been designated by the Commissioner as residential buildings with more than six (6) units.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)	7-13A.2	Definitions.	Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the definitions contained in subsection 7-13.3 shall apply and control in these sections.	a.	Large residential building shall mean a residential building with more than six (6) units.
	b.	Owner shall mean a person who owns or is in control of a large residential building.	c.	Recycling cart shall mean any container ranging in size from thirty (30) to ninety (90) gallons that is composed of weatherproof material such as plastic or metal and that is clearly marked and/or identifiable as a container for recyclables; the Department commonly refers to certain recycling carts in widespread use throughout the City as “toters.” Recycling carts shall be used only for the containment and collection of recyclables. Recycling carts are hereby specifically exempted from the fee and application provisions of section 23-2 and section 23-11.	d.	Recycling Coordinator shall mean that person holding the position, or its equivalent, of Large Apartment Building Recycling Coordinator at the Department.	e.	Recycling guide shall mean that publication in its most current form, or its equivalent, published by the Department pursuant to subsection 7-13A.5.	f.	Resident shall mean a lawful inhabitant of a large residential building.	g.	Set out container shall have the same definition as promulgated in subsection 7-13A.3(p) and is commonly referred to as “blue box.”(Ord. 2002 c. 1)	7-13A.3	Access to Recycling Programs and Services.	a.	Owners shall provide to residents access to the recycling programs and services offered by the City of Boston to the extent herein required.	b.	Upon the Department's or the Recycling Coordinator's receipt of a request from a resident, the Recycling Coordinator shall notify the owner of its receipt thereof. An owner, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice from the Recycling Coordinator, shall provide access to the recycling programs and services of the City of Boston by installing and maintaining an adequate number of recycling carts in a common area of the premises and within a reasonable proximity not to exceed three hundred fifty (350') feet from a point of egress of a large residential 
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	721
7-13A	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-13A
building and as close as practicable to the current waste/trash removal dumpsters or containers for the large residential building; if an owner determines that the installation of recycling carts is impracticable then the owner shall contact the Recycling Coordinator for generation and/or approval to supply residents with access through alternative measures including but not limited to providing a set out container to each unit in the large residential building. If the Recycling Coordinator is unable to generate and/or approve alternative measures as aforesaid then the owner may seek an exemption pursuant to subsection 7-13A.4.	c.	Nothing in this section prohibits owners from supplying residents with set out containers.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)	7-13A.4	Owners Unable to Comply; Exemption.	a.	An owner may submit to the Commissioner a detailed letter requesting exemption from the requirements of these sections within thirty (30) days of the date of final determination under subsection 7-13A.3 regarding alternative measures to providing access to the recycling programs and services. Said detailed letter shall include (i) the owner's reasons for the request for exemption, (ii) the specific steps the owner has taken to evaluate the owner's large residential building and its premises regarding compliance with these sections, and (iii) the specific steps the owner has taken in an attempt to comply with the provisions of these sections. The Commissioner shall, within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request, respond in writing to the owner by: (i) rejecting the request and directing the specific steps the owner must take to ensure compliance with these sections or (ii) approving the request. The decision of the Commissioner is final and may be appealed only to a court of competent jurisdiction.	b.	Any large residential building from which the City of Boston does not collect trash is exempt from the requirements of these sections. Nothing in these sections prohibits such a large residential building from voluntarily providing access to the City of Boston's free recycling services.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)
	7-13A.5	Recycling Guides.	The Department shall modify its recycling guide titled “Curbside Recycling for Boston For All Residents in Households with 1-6 Units” to reference and include large residential buildings. Each owner shall ensure that a recycling guide is posted in a clearly visible location as close as practicable to (i) the main entrance to the large residential building or (ii) to the installed recycling carts. Owners shall ensure that a recycling guide is delivered to each unit in the large residential building contemporaneously with installation of the recycling carts. An owner shall deliver a recycling guide to each resident within fourteen (14) calendar days of the onset of the resident's residency.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)	7-13A.6	Inspections, Enforcement, and Penalties.	a.	The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department and any designees thereof shall have the authority to inspect, enforce, and impose penalties under this section.		1.	Inspections.			(a)	Authority.  In order to properly carry out its respective responsibilities under this section and to ensure that the public health, safety, and environment are protected from the hazards posed by unsanitary and unhealthy conditions, the Inspectional Services Department is authorized (i) to examine or survey at any reasonable time the premises of all large residential buildings and (ii) with prior notice to the owner or the owner's authorized representative, to enter, examine, or survey the large residential building.			(b)	Systematic Area Inspections.  The Inspectional Services Department is authorized to develop and adopt plans for systematic, periodic area-wide inspections of large residential buildings, their premises, and the recycling facilities thereon.			(c)	Interference with Inspection.				(1)	If an owner or an owner's authorized representative, having been notified pursuant to subparagraph (a), knowingly impedes, 
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	722
7-13A	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-13A
inhibits, interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to the large residential building or the premises where inspection is authorized by this section, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of the site and apprises said owner or owner's authorized representative concerning the nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, the justification for the inspection, and may seek the assistance of the police authorities in presenting said warrant.				(2)	If a resident or other person knowingly impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to the large residential building or the premises where inspection is authorized by this section, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of the site and apprises said resident or other person concerning the nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, the justification for the inspection, and may seek the assistance of the police authorities in presenting said warrant.				(3)	Nothing in these subsections authorizes the Inspectional Services Department to inspect any areas other than the indoor common areas of a large residential building or the outdoor premises of the large residential building.		2.	Violation. Violations of this section include, but are not limited to:			(a)	The failure to provide access to the recycling programs and services in accordance with subsection 7-13A.3; and			(b)	The failure to post a recycling guide in accordance with subsection 7-13A.4 or to deliver a recycling guide to residents in accordance with subsection 7-13A.4; and			(c)	The failure to comply with the requirements of this section; and			(d)	The interference with an inspection, including inspections conducted a pursuant to a validly issued inspection warrant, pursuant to subsection 7-13A.6(1)(c).
		3.	Service of Notice of Violation.  Notice of violation shall be served on the owners in the following manner:			(a)	Personally, by any person authorized to serve civil process; or			(b)	By any person authorized to serve civil process by leaving a copy of the notice of violation at the last and usual place of abode of the violator; or			(c)	By sending a copy of the notice of violation by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, if within the Commonwealth; or			(d)	If the last and usual place of abode of the owner is unknown or outside the Commonwealth, by posting a copy of the notice of violation in a conspicuous place on or about the premises and by advertising it for at least three (3) out of five (5) consecutive days in one (1) or more newspapers of general circulation within the City.		4.	Administrative Hearings.			(a)	Right to Hearing.  Any person upon whom a notice of violation has been served may request a hearing from the Inspectional Services Department by filing a written petition requesting a hearing on the matter with the Inspectional Services Department within seven (7) days after the day the notice of violation was served.			(b)	Hearing Notice. Upon receipt of a petition, the Inspectional Services Department shall inform the petitioner of the date, time, and place of the hearing in writing.			(c)	Time for Hearing. The hearing shall commence within thirty (30) days after the day on which the notice of violation was served. The time period in which the cited violations must be remedied shall be stayed upon receipt of the petition for a hearing until such time as the hearing is held.			(d)	Hearing of Petitioner. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses or documentary evidence, and to show why the notice of violation 

Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	723
7-13A	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-13A
should be modified or withdrawn. An official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available to the petitioner upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period specified herein shall not affect the validity of any notice of violation.			(e)	Final Decision After Hearing; Failure to Comply with Final Order.				(1)	Within seven (7) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Inspectional Services Department shall sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice of violation and shall inform the petitioner in writing of its decision and the reasons therefor. If the Department sustains or modifies the notice of violation, said violation shall be remedied within the time period allotted in the original notice of violation or in the modification.				(2)	If a written petition for a hearing is not filed with the Inspectional Services Department within seven (7) days after the notice of violation has been served or if after a hearing the notice of violation has been sustained in any part, then each day's failure to comply with the notice of violation within the time allotted as issued or modified shall constitute an additional and separate violation.		5.	Judicial Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Inspectional Services Department with respect to a notice of violation or any other order issued under these sections by the Inspectional Services Department, may seek relief in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of the Commonwealth.		6.	Penalties.			(a)	Failure to Comply with Section. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall result in the imposition of penalties by the Inspectional Services Department. For any failure to comply, the Inspectional Services Department shall have the authority to (i) issue a written notice of violation and (ii) seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction instructing the owner to comply with the requirements of this section. Penalties shall be administered only in accordance with the provisions of this section.
			(b)	Notice of Violation. The Inspectional Services Department shall respond to an owner's first failure to comply by issuing a notice of violation to an owner which shall provide an owner with thirty (30) days to correct the violation.			(c)	Failure to Comply with Notice of Violation. An owner who fails to comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to these sections by the Inspectional Services Department or its duly appointed agents or representatives shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars and no cents ($150.00) per violation per day and not more than three hundred dollars and no cents ($300.00) per violation per day.			(d)	Injunctive Relief. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services may, after an administrative hearing, seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction instructing an owner to comply with a notice of violation.			(e)	Interference After Inspection Warrant Presented. An owner who refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access or neglects or fails to provide entry and free access to every part of the large residential building where inspection is sought under these sections after an inspection warrant has been obtained and presented in accordance with these sections, shall be subject to a fine not less than one hundred fifty dollars and no cents ($150.00) and not more than three hundred dollars and no cents ($300.00) per day.			(f)	Fines. All fines and penalties assessed and collected under this subsection may be enforced pursuant to G.L. c. 40, section 21D.		7.	Regulatory Authority. The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to effect and enforce this section.		8.	Delegation of Authority. The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall have the authority to delegate enforcement of this section to any City department authorized to enforce public safety, health, or environmental laws and regulations.
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	724
7-13A	ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION	7-14
	b.	Nothing in these sections shall prevent the Commissioner from developing incentive programs directed at owners for the successful and timely implementation of actions designed to provide residents with access to the City's recycling programs and services.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)	7-13A.7	Annual Report.	In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the recycling programs of the City of Boston and of large residential building in the City of Boston, the Department shall annually prepare a report regarding the City of Boston's recycling programs, including the tonnage of recycled materials collected by the Department and the tonnage of trash collected by the Department. This annual report shall specifically and separately detail the recycled tonnage collected from large residential buildings. An original of this annual report shall be filed with the Boston City Clerk and with the Boston City Council no later than March 31 of each calendar year.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)	7-13A.8	Implementation.	The provisions of 7-13A shall be effective commencing on January 1, 2003. Nothing in this section prohibits an owner from voluntarily providing recycling access to the residents of the owner's large residential building and/or contacting the Recycling Coordinator in order to develop a site-specific recycling access strategy addressing the needs of the owner's large residential building and/or otherwise taking steps in preparation for compliance with the provisions herein. An owner that provides recycling access to the residents of the owner's large residential building that fulfills the requirements of section 7-13A prior to January 1, 2003 and maintains conforming recycling access after January 1, 2003 shall be exempted from the provisions of these sections.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)	7-13A.9	Severability.	If any provision of this section shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2002 c. 1)
7-14	INDOOR AIR QUALITY.	7-14.1	Indoor Air Quality Unit.	There is hereby established within the Environmental Health Office of the Department of Health and Hospitals or its successors an Indoor Air Quality Unit which is charged with monitoring the quality of air (a) in buildings to which the public has access which are not subject to monitoring by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) for air quality standards substantially as contemplated by its Proposed Indoor Air Quality Rule (59FR15968), (b) in all public school buildings within the City, (c) in all other buildings owned or leased by the City or any agency or instrumentality thereof (except foreclosed real estate,) and, (d) in any other structure in Boston where there is an apparent risk to health likely to be caused or aggravated by poor air quality.(Ord. 1996 c. 10)	7-14.2	Air Quality in School Buildings.	No less than twice each year the Indoor Air Quality Unit shall inspect each school building, and, using as guidelines the then current recommendations and standards of OSHA and the Environmental Protection Agency, shall ensure that the air quality in each such building is appropriate to the maintenance of good health, with special regard to airborne pollutants in concentrations harmful to children. Each inspection shall include (a) electronic environmental air quality monitoring, (b) visual inspection, (c) review of health complaint surveys, heating, ventilation and air conditioning evaluations, building inspection records, and, (d) such other procedures as building history and inspection of similar structures suggest. In the event an inspection shall detect a situation likely to cause ill health, the Unit shall forthwith make written record thereof and report the same to the person in charge of the building, to the Superintendent of Schools, and to the School Committee. The Unit shall cooperate with City and school officials and employees to take appropriate action to cure the situation and minimize adverse effect on the public health. In the event subsequent inspection, or other facts known to the Unit, indicate a failure to act with expedience toward correction of the situation, the Unit shall give immediate report to 

Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	725
7-14	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	7-14
the Board of Health and Hospitals or its successors and to the Mayor.(Ord. 1996 c. 10)	7-14.3	Air Quality in Other Public Buildings.	The Unit shall from time to time and when requested by the officer having charge of a City owned or occupied buildings, or any other building upon request of the owner, inspect buildings owned or leased by the City, and, using as guidelines the then current recommendation and standards of OSHA and the Environmental Protection Agency, shall ensure that the air quality in each such building is appropriate to the maintenance of good health. Each inspection shall include (a) electronic environmental air quality monitoring, (b) visual inspection, (c) review of health complaint surveys, heating, ventilation and air conditioning evaluations, building inspection records, and (d) such other procedures as building history and inspection of similar structures suggest. In the event an inspection shall detect a situation likely to cause ill health, the Unit shall forthwith make written record thereof and report the same to the person in charge of the building, and to the Mayor. The Unit shall cooperate with City officials and employees to take appropriate action to cure the situation and minimize adverse effect on the public health. In the event subsequent inspection, or other facts known to the Unit, indicates a failure to act with expedience toward correction of the situation, the Unit shall give immediate report to the Board of Health and Hospitals or its successors.(Ord. 1996 c. 10)	7-14.4	Annual Report.	The Unit shall make annual report of its doings, including a listing of inspections made and any recommendations it may have for legislative action, to the Mayor, who shall convey a copy to the City Council and to the Board of Health and Hospitals or its successors, which Board shall maintain the same as a public record.(Ord. 1996 c. 10)

Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	726