	CHAPTER IX	BUILDING REGULATION
Cross-reference:	Public Buildings; Accessability for	  Handicapped, Section 21-4.9-1	HOUSING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.Editor’s Note:	The Building Department and the Housing	  Inspection Department were abolished and all	  powers and duties transferred to the	  Inspectional Services Department by Ch. 19	  of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this	  Code).	9-1.1	Board and Divisions.	There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Housing Inspection Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board, known as the Housing Inspection, consisting of an Officer, known as the Commissioner of Housing Inspection, who shall be Chairman of the Board, another Officer known as the Assistant Commissioner of Housing Inspection, and the Building Commissioner, ex officio. The Commissioner of Housing Inspection and the Assistant Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall each be appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, and shall devote his whole time to the duties of his Office. The Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall exclusively have the powers and perform the duties, of a Department Head with respect to the making of contracts and the appointment, suspension, discharge, compensation and indemnification of subordinates for the Housing Inspection Department. In the event of the absence or disability of the Commissioner of Housing Inspection or of vacancy in his office, the Assistant Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall act as Chairman of the Housing Inspection Board, and shall have the powers conferred, and perform the duties imposed, upon the Commissioner.

	There shall be in the Housing Inspection Department an Inspection Division, an Enforcement Division, and such other Divisions, if any, as the Housing Inspection Board shall from time to time adjudge necessary for the proper conduct of the Department. The Inspection Division shall be under the immediate charge of the Commissioner of Housing Inspection; and the Enforcement Division shall be under the immediate charge of the Assistant Commissioner of Housing Inspection, subject to the general supervision of the Commissioner.(Ord. 1965 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 16A § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 1)Cross-reference:	Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 9-3	9-1.2	Powers and Duties.	The Commissioner of Housing Inspection, shall have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed on a Board of Health by Section 12 of Chapter 83, and Section 127 of Chapter 111, of the General Laws, by Sections 122, 123, 124 and 125 of said Chapter 111 insofar, but only insofar, as said Sections 122, 123, 124 and 125 apply to places of human habitation, and by Sections 127A and 127B of said Chapter 111 insofar, but only insofar, as said Sections 127A and 127B relate (a) to enforcing so much of the State Sanitary Code as concerns standards of fitness for places of human habitation, housing and sanitation standards for farm labor camps, and requirements for the disposal of sanitary sewage in unsewered areas, and (b) to adopting such public health regulations, not inconsistent with the State Sanitary Code or other provisions of law, as in the opinion of the Commissioner of Housing Inspection may be necessary to make and keep all places of human habitation fit for such habitation. The Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed upon the Board of Health of the City, or the Health Commissioner of the City, by Sections 13, 14, 	901
9-1	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-1
19, 20, 21 and 22 of Chapter 382 of the Acts of 1885, as amended, by Chapter 185 of the Acts of 1897, by Chapter 219 of the Acts of 1897, as amended, by Section 128 of Chapter 550 of the Acts of 1907, as amended, and by Section 116 or any other provision of the Boston Building Code. It shall further be the duty of the Commissioner of Housing Inspection: (1) to receive all complaints of violations, in or about places of human habitation, of any and all statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations enacted for the preservation of health or safety in or about places of human habitation; (2) to refer in writing to the Building Commissioner or the Fire Commissioner, as the case may be, for investigation and prosecution all complaints of violations of the Boston Building Code and the Boston Fire Prevention Code and to maintain written contact with said Commissioners with respect thereto; and (3) to inspect places of human habitation and enforce therein the provisions of law specified in the preceding sentences of this section and all other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations enacted for the preservation of health in or about such places.	It shall remain the duty and responsibility of the Building and Fire Commissioners, respectively, to enforce compliance with the Boston Building Code and the Boston Fire Prevention Code. To aid them in discharging such duty but without any lessening of their respective responsibilities, the Enforcement Division of the Housing Inspection Department may offer them, and they may accept, assistance designed to unify action upon complaints received by the Commissioner of Housing Inspection.(Ord. 1968 c. 10 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 16A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 2)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 83 § 12; G.L. c. 111 §§ 122-125,	  127A, 127B; St. 1885 c. 382 § § 13, 14, 19,	  22; St. 1897 c. 185; St. 1897 c. 219; St. 1907 	  c. 550 § 128; St. 1938 c. 479 § 116; St. 1962 	  c. 314; Ord. 1959 c. 3; Ord. ss 9-1.3; Ord.	  Section 11-4	9-1.3	Inspection and Re-Inspection of			Rental Units.	The purpose of this section is to implement a proactive rental inspection program that maximizes the effectiveness of City resources in rental property code enforcement. It identifies all rental units in the City and their owners on a continuous and recurring basis
in order to accommodate the transient nature of the rental market, and prioritizes notorious problem properties in order to economically target City resources toward chronic and priority offenders. It also provides an alternative compliance plan process available to responsible owners who consistently comply with City and State code in order to expedite them through an inspection process aimed at maintaining a uniform minimum standard for conditions exhibited by rental properties in Boston in the interests of public health and safety.	a.	Definitions.		Authorized inspector.  Any ISD inspector or any other person who (i) is a Commonwealth of Massachusetts Registered Sanitarian or a Commonwealth of Massachusetts Certified Health Officer or a Commonwealth of Massachusetts Certified Home Inspector, or has proof of training acceptable to ISD, and (ii) has demonstrated a proficiency in the application of the State Sanitary Code by satisfactorily completing the ISD certificate program for qualifying authorized professionals to perform inspections under CBC 9-1.3, and has been issued a certificate of completion.		Commissioner. Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or a designee.		Days.  Consecutive calendar days		Owner. A for profit or not for profit individual or corporation, an agent of a for profit or not for profit individual or corporation, or any person having legal charge of or authority over a private dwelling, tenement, lodging house, or other residential rental property dedicated to residential use.		Problem property. As defined by Ordinance 16-55.2, as it may be adopted and amended from time to time, a problem property is a property that meets the following criteria and is designated as such following recommendation by the problem properties Task Force: 1, The Police Department has been called to the property not fewer than four (4) times within the preceding twelve (12) month period for any incident involving any arrestable offense including but not limited to disturbing the peace, trespassing, underage drinking or assault; or 2, the Air Pollution Control Commission has received not fewer than four
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902
9-1	BUILDING REGULATION	9-1
(4) sustained complaints for noise within the preceding twelve (12) month period; or 3, the Inspectional Services Department or the Public Health Commission have received not fewer than four (4) sustained complaints within the preceding twelve (12) month period for noxious, noisome or unsanitary conditions.		 Rental unit. A non-owner occupied room or group of related rooms within a dwelling used or intended for use by one family or household for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. A rental unit shall also mean a non-owner occupied condominium unit. Dwelling units that have current Lodging House Licenses issued by the Licensing Board for the City of Boston shall not be considered as rental units for the purposes of this section, and will continue to be annually licensed and inspected pursuant to M.G.L 140 sections 22 and 25.	b.	All owners of private residential rental housing units ("Owners"), including condominium units, in the City of Boston shall register no later than July 1st of each year with the Inspectional Services Department ("ISD") identifying the property by street address and the number of units that they own at each address. An owner of a rental unit, who does not reside within the subject dwelling, shall post and maintain or cause to be posted and maintained on such dwelling adjacent to the mailboxes for such dwelling or elsewhere in the interior of such dwelling in a location visible to the residents a notice constructed of durable material, not less than twenty (20) square inches in size, bearing her/his name, address and telephone number. If the owner is a realty trust or partnership, the name, address and telephone number of the managing trustee or partner shall be posted. If the owner is a corporation, the name, address and telephone number of the president of the corporation shall be posted. Where the owner employs a manager or agent who does not reside in such dwelling, such manager or agent's name, address and telephone number shall also be included in the notice. P.O. boxes do not satisfy the address requirement of this section. All owners must register each rental unit annually with ISD, and must attest to and affirm that they are familiar with their obligations to comply with this section, the State Sanitary Code (105 CMR 410), the State Building Code (780 CMR), the City of Boston Zoning Code, Federal, State and Local fair housing regulations, and all other regulations applicable to residential dwellings, and that they
intend to comply with said regulations, by signing a form provided by and approved by the Commissioner of ISD. An owner owning multiple units in the same building may submit one form representing all said units. Any owner residing outside of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts must designate a Boston based resident agent authorized to accept service on the owner's behalf. All rental unit registrations shall be recorded in an electronic database of all owners for an initial fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), and annual renewal fees of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each rental unit. The Commissioner shall work to employ technology to the extent possible in order to optimize the fairness and effectiveness of the registration process in accordance with paragraph "p".	c.	The following rental units shall be exempt from the inspection requirements of this section: (i) rental units owned or operated by Federal, State, or City Government, (ii) rental units located in dwellings containing six (6) or fewer rental units, one of which is occupied by the owner. ISD will provide exempt unit owners with education materials on all code requirements relative to their units on a regular basis. All non-exempt rental units must be inspected at least once every five (5) years. In order to develop the inspection plan for the first year, and subsequent years of the five (5) year inspections cycle, ISD shall utilize data that may include, but shall not be limited to, inspection records, court records, documented constituent complaints, and any information related to the status of the property with the Problem Property Task Force or information compiled by said Task Force to prioritize a list of properties for inspection in each neighborhood.  Owners may request that ISD conduct the inspection or said owner may engage an "authorized" non-ISD inspector meeting the qualifications enumerated in paragraph "a" of this section. The procedures and fees for such inspections are set forth in paragraphs "d", "h", "i", and "j" of this section. Annual comprehensive apartment inspections conducted by the Boston Housing Authority leased housing program or the Metropolitan Boston Housing Partnership leased housing program, or by other Federal, State, or City inspection programs that are accepted by ISD as being substantially equivalent, may be used to satisfy the five (5)-year inspection requirement. ISD shall perform periodic and random audit inspections of no less than five percent (5%) of the "authorized" inspections that are filed with ISD.
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902.19-1	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-1
	d.	Residential rental unit owners may fulfill the requirements of CBC 9-1.3 by requesting an inspection from ISD, within thirty (30) calendar days from issuance of an inspection notice, or notifying ISD within thirty (30) calendar days that the inspection will be completed utilizing one of the alternate methods outlined in paragraph "c". Non-ISD inspection reports must be submitted subject to the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner according to paragraph "p". Failed Non-ISD inspections must be accompanied by a compliance plan acceptable to ISD that will bring the subject rental unit into compliance with the minimum standards for human habitation for a residential dwelling as set forth in the Massachusetts State Sanitary Code (105 CMR 410), as it may be adopted and amended from time to time. All inspections shall include a sworn statement and shall be signed by an ISD Housing Inspector, Boston Housing Authority Housing Inspector, a Metropolitan Boston Housing Partnership Housing Inspector, or an "authorized inspector". An authorized inspector shall be prohibited from charging more than one hundred thirty-three percent (133%) of the fee charged by the City of Boston for an inspection performed under these sections.	e.	An owner of a unit or units may apply to the Commissioner for a "5-Year" alternative compliance plan under this section to inspect a rental unit once every five (5) years for the compliance with the provisions of the State Sanitary Code. An owner seeking such an alternative plan shall file an application in a format approved by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall issue written findings regarding the approval or denial of an alternative plan within thirty (30) business days of such application, and shall base the written findings on factors including, but not limited to, the following: (i) a review of the owner's history of property management on file with the City of Boston and a management plan submitted for the property, (ii) a review of the unit's history of compliance with the Massachusetts State Sanitary Code, (iii) a site visit of the property for which the exemption is sought, and (iv) if relevant, a history of compliance with CBC 9-1.3. An alternative plan approved by the Commissioner shall be subject to revocation following a hearing held by ISD if the unit subject to the alternative plan has one (1) or more violations of the Massachusetts State Sanitary Code and if, upon proper notice of those violations to the owner, the violations
have not been corrected in the time provided in such notice. An owner approved for an alternative plan shall be required to maintain maintenance records for any and all alternative plan units for the duration of the effectiveness of the alternative plan, and such records shall be available for review by ISD during regular business hours or upon reasonable notice to the owner. An owner approved for an alternative plan shall be required to maintain compliance with all of the requirements of CBC 9-1.3.	The Commissioner shall charge a fee of: (i) fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first unit for a five (5) year alternative compliance plan from CBC 9-1.3 and (ii) an additional ten dollars ($10.00) for each additional unit in the same building up to a maximum of three thousand dollars ($3000.00) per building and if two (2) or more buildings comprise a complex owned by the same owner then the fee shall not exceed six thousand dollars ($6,000.00). An owner may apply for an extension of an alternative compliance plan upon expiration, provided that the owner shall complete the entire alternative compliance plan application process and ISD may cause ten to twenty percent (10% to 20%) of the units to be inspected pursuant to CBC 9-1.3. The Commissioner shall follow the same process and procedure as for an original alternative compliance plan application. Alternative compliance plan extensions shall be granted contingently upon a site visit, if ISD determines it is needed, and a favorable review of the unit history dating back to its last inspection. Consistent records of ownership and compliance shall be weighed heavily in the granting of alternative compliance plan extensions and may render such an extension a formality at the discretion of ISD barring any documented circumstances examined on a case by case basis.	f.	Any rental unit determined to be a problem property as defined by Ordinance 16-55.2, as it may be adopted and amended from time to time, must annually request an inspection from ISD. Each owner of a problem property shall also file with ISD an annual management plan, within thirty (30) days of its classification as a problem property, outlining the remediation of any outstanding code violations or other persistent conditions requiring the landlord's affirmative response as identified by the Task Force. Said management Plan shall identify the deficiencies in the property, identify consultants and contractors engaged to proceed with any remediation work, detail
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902.29-1	BUILDING REGULATION	9-1
any proposal made by the contractors or consultants, and set out a timeline over which the work will be completed.	g.	Chronic offender point system.  Residential rental property owners who fail to register or who repeatedly fail to comply with notices of violations, or warnings of noncompliance, or municipal fines, shall be assessed points based on the following schedule at the time of registration or at the time the violation is found (property owners cannot be assessed points under more than one of the following sections for the same violation): 		1.	Inclusion on the Problem Property list, (2 points).		2.	Failure to comply with an ISD notice of violation under the state sanitary code (105 CMR 400 & 410) the state building code (780 CMR), or Boston zoning code, within the time frame provided, (1 point).		3.	Failure to make a good faith effort to correct emergency violations after two (2) inspections (2 points).		4.	Failure to register and/ or complete the inspection requirements of CBC 9-1.3, (1 point).	Upon being assessed with points in excess of the amount allowed, as described in Table 1 below, ISD shall notify owners of their classification as a "chronic offender" by mail, return receipt requested. ISD shall notify owners of each point assessed by mail, return receipt requested.  The owner shall have fourteen (14) days to request a hearing to contest each point assessment or their classification as a "chronic offender". Chronic offenders are subject to fines of three hundred dollars ($300.00), or the maximum allowed, for each subsequent point received in a twelve (12) month rolling period, and may also be subject to court prosecution under the applicable codes and regulations. Chronic offenders shall be required to request an inspection of each rental unit once every three (3) years, and it shall be mandatory that ISD conduct said three (3) year inspection. Chronic offenders with less than two (2) points in a rolling twelve (12) month period shall have the chronic offenders classification removed on the last day of the twelfth (12th) month following their classification.
	TABLE 1# Rental Units OwnedPoint Threshold in a 12 Month PeriodPoint Threshold in a 16 Month Period1 to 50 units61051 to 500 units1016501 or more units1424	h.	All inspections performed under these sections shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of the State Sanitary Code and recorded on a form approved by the ISD. The Commissioner shall charge a filing fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for any registration or sworn statement filed by an owner, authorized Inspector or other agent of the owner; said filing fees shall be capped at a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per building or five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per complex.	For an inspection performed by ISD, the Commissioner shall charge a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per unit for buildings of one (1)-to-three (3) units and seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per unit for all other buildings, including condominium units. This inspection fee shall provide up to two (2) inspections, for three (3) or more inspections, the Commissioner shall charge a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per inspection for each rental unit inspected.	i.	Before conducting an inspection pursuant to CBC 9-1.3 of an occupied unit, reasonable advance notice shall be provided to the occupant in writing. Results of the inspection shall be provided to both the owner and the occupant. If an owner's agent is denied access by the occupant for purposes of conducting a CBC 9-1.3 inspection, the owner of said unit shall notify ISD of such denial within seven (7) calendar days. Such denial shall be noted on a sworn, dated statement filed by an authorized inspector. If any person is denied access to a unit for the purposes of conducting such an inspection by the occupant, then ISD shall verify and document in writing such denial, which shall exempt the owner from the inspection requirements of CBC 9-1.3 for the period of one (1) year. Denial of access by the occupant shall neither deem the dwelling to be in compliance with the State Sanitary Code nor bar the occupant from exercising
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902.3
9-1	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-1
legal rights. The Commissioner may cause the unit to be inspected pursuant to the terms herein in the manner provided for in the State Sanitary Code.	j.	Decertification process for authorized inspectors and owners granted an inspection waiver: All authorized inspectors shall perform all inspections in a manner consistent with this section and shall refer to Inspectional Services Department any issue involving imminent life safety or health problems. Authorized inspectors accept the designation to perform these inspections with the understanding that the failure to adhere to the standards of good faith, fair dealing and honesty will result in the revocation of the status as authorized to perform these inspections, action against the professional license and if relevant, notification to authorities for criminal prosecution. ISD shall immediately revoke the approval of any authorized inspector, or owner who has been granted an inspection waiver, who misrepresents the condition of a unit or fails to inspect a unit with due care, misrepresents any information on the application form or any form or document submitted under this section, or for any reason demonstrating a failure to honor the requirement of good faith and fair dealing. An authorized inspector may request a hearing once aggrieved by such a revocation of approval. A hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days upon a written request from the aggrieved party.	k.	 Failure to comply with any provisions of this ordinance shall be punishable by a fine as set out in paragraph "r" of the CBC 9-1.3.	l.	Any and all notices, statements, inspection forms, applications including supporting documentation, and any other documents concerning an inspection pursuant to CBC 9-1.3 shall be a matter of public record.	m.	In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the inspection programs delineated herein, the Commissioner shall annually prepare a report detailing the activities of the program no later than July 31st of each calendar year, beginning June 30th, 2014. The annual written report shall include the following items:		1.	The number of registration statements received by the Commissioner during the prior twelve (12) month period.
		2.	The number of owners issued fines or citations by ISD for (i) failing to initially file a registration statement and (ii) for failing to file a registration statement within thirty (30) days of written notice from ISD.		3.	The total number of inspections performed by ISD inspectors during the prior twelve (12) months, along with a district categorized list of the number of inspections performed in such district during such period.		4.	The total number of inspections performed on problem properties, as defined in Ordinance 16-55.2, along with a break down by district of the number of problem properties inspected in such district.		5.	Such other information as may be requested by the City Council	n.	The provisions of CBC 9-1.3 may be enforced in accordance with the noncriminal disposition process of M.G.L. c. 40, s. 21D, provided that this section shall not preclude the City of Boston from proceeding to restrain a violation by injunction. The provisions of this section may also be enforced according to M.G.L. Chapter 40 as accepted by the City of Boston, also known as the "Green Ticket" law.	o.	Transfer or ownership of rental units must be reported to ISD within thirty (30) days of closing. New property owners must register within thirty (30) days of closing and must submit a reasonable maintenance plan that identifies and address the any significant code deficiencies within the subject property. If the property was acquired during its inspection year and the inspections did not occur before the transfer of ownership, then the new owner must, within ninety (90) days, must complete any required inspection or apply for an alternative compliance plan.	p.	The Commissioner shall promulgate written rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce the provisions of CBC 9-1.3. The Commissioner will work to employ and implement technology to the extent possible in order to optimize the fairness and effectiveness of the registration and inspection processes within these rules, which may be revised from time to time.
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902.49-1	BUILDING REGULATION	9-1
	q.	If any provision of CBC 9-1.3 shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.	r.	The provisions of CBC 9-1.3 shall be effective one hundred twenty (120) days after its date of passage.	s.	9-1.3 fines for violation of rental re-inspection.  Any failure to comply with Section 9-1.3 will result in the assessment of a fine of three hundred dollars ($300) per month beginning in the first month in which the property is found not to be in compliance and continuing for each subsequent month thereafter.(Ord. 1984 cs. 26, 39; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 1; Ord. 2003 c. 16 § 1; Ord. 2012 c. 9)	9-1.4	Rental Dwelling Unit Delivery Standards.	Whenever a rental unit is turned over to a new tenant said rental unit must be delivered in a safe and sanitary condition. Absentee owners must provide the occupants and city officials with appropriate contact information. All rental units must be in compliance with the requirements established herein at the time of delivery to a new tenant.	Compliance with requirements of this section does not supercede the property owner’s requirements, under CBC 9-1.3, Re-Inspection of Rental Units, to request a rental unit inspection within forty-five (45) days of turnover, to ensure that the rented unit meets all of the minimum requirements of the State Sanitary Code (105 CMR 410). Compliance with either or both sections does not restrict the right of any occupant to, at any time, request that the Inspectional Services Department conduct an inspection of his or her rental premises for violations of any applicable code.	a.	Definitions.  For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply:		Compliance means meeting all the requirements of this section. It shall also mean correcting any violations of this section in a competent fashion and restoring all parts of the rental dwelling unit, to a condition complying with this section.
Compliance shall also mean, in those cases where licenses or permits are required to perform work necessary to correct the violations, such as, but not limited to, building, plumbing and wiring, that the work has been completed in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.		Garbage means the animal, vegetable or other organic waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, consumption or cultivation of food, and containers and cans, which have contained food unless such containers and cans have been cleaned or prepared for recycling.		Means of egress means a continuous and unobstructed path of travel from any point in a dwelling to an abutting public way in accordance with the Massachusetts State Building Code, 780 CMR 1002.		New tenant is a person who has, within the previous twenty-four (24) hours, occupied for the first time a rental dwelling unit under the terms of a rental housing agreement with the property owner/agent for the use and occupancy of any dwelling unit for a period of time more than thirty (30) days.		Occupant means every person living or sleeping in a dwelling pursuant to a rental housing agreement with the property owner/agent.		Property owner/agent shall mean the individual or business entity which holds title to any dwelling unit, including without limitation, a person, partnership, corporation, or trust. For purposes of this section, the rights and duties of the landlord hereunder shall be the obligation of anyone who manages, controls, or customarily accepts rent on behalf of the landlord.		Provide means to supply and pay for, except where an applicable statute or regulation provides otherwise.		Rental dwelling unit shall mean the part of a building that is rented for use as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one (1) or more persons who maintain a household, in accordance with the requirements of the Massachusetts Building Code, 780 CMR, and the Massachusetts State Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410.
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902.5
9-1	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-1
		Rubbish means combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage, and includes but is not limited to such materials as paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, grass clippings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery, dust, and the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other combustible materials.		Safe means free from conditions which may endanger or materially impair the health or safety and well-being of an occupant or the general public, as set forth in 105 CMR 410.750, but may include any other condition so certified by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, to be violations which may expose or subject to harm, the health or safety, and the well being, of an occupant or the public.		Violation means any condition in a rental unit, which fails to meet any requirement of this section.	b.	Requirements.  Property owners/agents shall deliver rental units to new tenants in a clean, safe condition, in compliance with the provisions of CBC 9-1.3, this section CBC 9-1.4, the Massachusetts State Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410, and with all other applicable codes and ordinances. Rental units shall be delivered meeting the following minimum requirements:		1.	Clean and sanitary. The common areas and the interior of rental units must be in a clean and sanitary condition, free of garbage, rubbish, or other filth causing sickness, at the time of delivery to a new tenant.		2.	Posting of ownership information. The owner of a dwelling which is rented for residential use, who does not reside therein and who does not employ a manager or agent for such dwelling who resides therein, shall post and maintain or cause to be posted and maintained on such dwelling in a location visible to the residents, a notice constructed of durable materials not less than twenty (20) square inches in size, bearing his or her name, actual street address and mailing address and current, active telephone number. Post office box address shall not satisfy these requirements. If the owner is a realty trust or partnership, said information for the managing trustee or partner shall be posted. If the owner is a corporation, such information of the corporation shall be posted. Where the owner employs a manager or
agent who does not reside in such dwelling, such information for said manager or agents shall also be included in the notice. (See M.G.L. c. 143, s. 3S.)		3.	Smoke detectors. Property owners shall provide and maintain smoke detectors in or adjacent to sleeping areas as required by the regulations of the State Board of Fire Prevention (527 CMR) or of the State Fire Marshal. If any dwelling is found by the Boston Fire Department to be adequately equipped with smoke detectors, such findings shall satisfy the requirements of this section.		4.	Carbon monoxide detectors. Upon delivery of a rental unit to a new tenant, the property owner must provide and maintain functioning carbon monoxide detectors in accordance with the requirements of 527 CMR 31.		5.	Safe. Rental units must be delivered free of conditions which may endanger or materially impair the health or safety and well being of an occupant, pursuant to 105 CMR 410.750. These conditions include, but are not limited to, failure to provide heat; failure to provide adequate exits; failure to provide a toilet; the existence of structural or other defects that may expose the occupant or anyone else to fire, burns, shock, accident or other dangers or impairment to health or safety.	c.	Enforcement process.  To seek relief under this section, a new tenant shall request an inspection within twenty-four (24) hours of moving into a rental dwelling unit. Inspectional Services will cause that rental unit to be inspected no later than two (2) business days of receiving the request.	The scope of an inspection conducted pursuant to this section shall be limited to the requirements of this section, and the inspection results will be noted on an approved inspection form developed for the purposes of this section. If the inspection reveals one (1) or more violations of this section said violation shall be cited and enforced under this section and under the State Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410. The cited property owner or agent shall be provided with no less than twenty-four (24) hours and no more than fourteen (14) days to correct said violations, and said violation shall be considered as one (1) offense, punishable by a fine of up to three hundred  ($300.00) dollars, or up to the maximum fine allowed by law, if that amount is higher than three hundred ($300.00) dollars.
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902.6
9-1	BUILDING REGULATION	9-2
	A follow-up inspection shall be conducted within five (5) days of the expiration of the compliance deadline established by Inspectional Services. If the follow-up inspection reveals that the violation remains outstanding, that failure to correct shall constitute a second offense punishable by an additional fine of up to three hundred ($300.00) dollars, or up to the maximum fine allowed by law, if that amount is higher than three hundred ($300.00) dollars. After the expiration of the compliance deadline established by Inspectional Services, each subsequent day’s failure to correct the violations shall be considered a separate offense punishable by up to three hundred ($300.00) dollars or up to the maximum fine allowed by law.	d.	Inspection checklist available to the public.  Inspectional Services shall develop and make available the inspection checklist that may be used to verify that a rental unit meets the requirements of this section prior to delivery to new tenants.	e.	Exemptions.  Housing units owned or operated by Federal, State, or City agencies shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.	f.	Penalties.  The provisions of this section may be enforced in accordance with the non-criminal disposition process of M.G.L. c. 40, s. 21D, provided that this section shall not preclude the City of Boston from proceeding to restrain a violation by seeking an injunction. The City of Boston reserves the right to enforce noncompliance with the requirements of this section, through the Boston Housing Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction, where it shall seek correction of the violations and payment of any outstanding fines under this section.	The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these sections.	If any provision of this section shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2006 c. 5)
9-2	WEIGHTS AND MEASURES DIVISION.	9-2.1	Weights and Measures Division.	There shall be in the Housing Inspection Department a Division, known as the Weights and Measures Division, as provided in the charter as that term is defined in clause Fifth of Section 7 of Chapter 4 of the General Laws.(Ord. 1968 c. 14 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 16A § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 10)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 4 § 7 c. 1.5Editor’s Note:	The Building Department and the Housing	  Inspection Department were abolished and all	  power and duties transferred to the	  Inspectional Services Department by Ch. 19	  of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this	  Code).
	[Text continues on page 903.]Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	902.7
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE – ORDINANCES	902.8
9-3	BUILDING REGULATION	9-3
9-3	BUILDING DEPARTMENT.Editor’s Note:	The Building Department and the Housing	  Inspection Department were abolished and all	  powers and duties transferred to the	  Inspectional Services Department by Ch. 19 of	  the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this	  Code).	9-3.1	Duties of Building Commissioner.	The Building Department shall be under the charge of the Building Commissioner, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by statute, and may appoint not exceeding thirty (30) Building Inspectors for duty in his Department.	The Building Commissioner shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by statute on the Wire Commissioner and on the Fire Commissioner as successor to the Wire Commissioner, and shall carry out the provisions and requirements of law relating to wires and inspection of wires and the installation and use of electrical conductors and appliances in buildings in the City.(St. 1871 c. 280; St. 1938 c. 479 § 109; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 20; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 50)Cross-reference:	Ord. Section 11-4	9-3.2	Street Numbers.	The Building Commissioner shall assign a street number to each building on a street and shall require such number to be affixed to or inscribed on the building by the owner, and may determine the form, size and material of any such number and the place and mode of affixing or inscribing it.(Ord. 1954 c. 9 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 51)	9-3.3	Illumination of Residential Buildings.	a.	Purpose. It is the intent of this ordinance to protect the public safety by assuring adequate illumination of all doorways, alleys, passageways, and entrances to and from residential buildings used by the occupants thereof as a means of access and egress. In adopting rules and standards the Building 
Commissioner and the Commissioner of Housing Inspection may consider existing public lighting and shall endeavor to protect abutting buildings from existing glare.	b.	Every owner of a building containing four (4) or more dwelling units, including but not limited to apartment buildings, apartment hotels, boarding and lodging houses, fraternities, sororities, and dormitories, shall provide adequate illumination between sunset and sunrise of all doorways and entrance areas, on the front, rear, or sides of such building at or with principal access from grade, in accordance with reasonable rules and standards to be promulgated by the City of Boston Building Commissioner and Commissioner of Housing Inspection, within sixty (60) days following enactment of such rules and standards. In addition, such owners shall provide reasonable illumination of parking areas adjacent to such buildings and containing parking spaces required under the provisions of the Boston Zoning Code.	c.	The Building Commissioner and Commissioner of Housing Inspection are hereby authorized and directed within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this ordinance to hold a public hearing on the adoption of proposed rules and standards hereunder, such hearing to be advertised by at least seven (7) days notice in a paper of general circulation within the City, such notice to contain the date, time, and place of said public hearing and terms of the proposed rules and standards. Following such public hearing the Building Commissioner and Commissioner of Housing Inspection shall issue final rules and standards no later than sixty (60) days thereafter. Any owner deeming himself to be aggrieved shall have a right of appeal and review in accordance with the provisions of the Boston Building Code to the same extent as if said rules and standards were an integral part of said code.(Ord. 1973 c. 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 52)Cross-reference:	St. 1938 c. 479; Ordinances, Title 9, Chapters	  1, 7	9-3.4	Building Limits.	The building limits referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 202 of the Boston Building Code shall continue as established by Chapter 4 of the Ordinances of 1913 as follows:
	903
9-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-4
	All that portion of the City which is included within a line beginning at the intersection of the boundary lines between the City of Boston and the Cities of Somerville and Everett; thence by the boundary lines between the City of Boston and the Cities of Everett and Chelsea to the intersection with the center line of Trumbull Street extended northerly; thence by said center line of Trumbull Street extended, the center line of Trumbull Street and said center line extended southerly to the Harbor line; thence by said Harbor line to its intersection with the easterly line of Pier No. 5 belonging to the Boston and Albany Railroad Company; thence by a straight line across Boston Harbor to its intersection with the Harbor line at the easterly corner of Pier No. 1, in South Boston; thence by the Harbor line in the northerly, easterly and southerly portions of South Boston to an angle in said Harbor line nearly opposite the intersection of the center line of Columbia Road with the center line of location of the Old Colony Railroad; thence by a straight line to the said intersection; and by the center lines of Columbia Road, Blue Hill Avenue, Seaver Street, Columbus Avenue, Atherton and Mozart Streets, Chestnut Avenue, Sheridan, Centre, and Perkins Streets, South Huntington Avenue, Castleton Street and the center line of said Castleton Street extended to the boundary line between the City of Boston and the Town of Brookline; thence by said boundary line to a point therein one hundred (100') feet southwest of Washington Street in the Brighton district; thence by a line parallel to and one hundred (100') feet southwesterly from the center line of Washington Street to an angle formed by the intersection of said line with the extension of a line parallel to and one hundred (100') feet northwesterly of the center line of Market Street; thence by said extension and said line parallel to and one hundred (100') feet northwesterly of the center line of Market Street to a point one hundred (100') feet south of the center line of Western Avenue; thence be a line parallel to and one hundred (100') feet south of the center line of Western Avenue and said line extended to a point in the boundary line between the City of Boston and the Town of Watertown south of Watertown Bridge, so-called; thence by said boundary line and the boundary line between the City of Boston and the Cities of Cambridge and Somerville to the point of beginning. Also those portions of the Hyde Park district upon or within one hundred (100') feet of the following-named streets and squares: Everett 
Square, so-called; Fairmount Avenue from River Street to Neponset River; River Street from the location of the Boston and Providence Railroad to Winthrop Street; Hyde Park Avenue on the easterly side from the northerly side of Oak Street to Everett Street; Hyde Park Avenue on the westerly side from the northerly side of Pine Street extension, so-called, to a point on said Hyde Park Avenue opposite the southerly line of Everett Street; Harvard Avenue from River Street to Winthrop Street; Maple Street from River Street to a point one hundred eighty (180') feet southerly therefrom; Central Avenue from River Street to Winthrop Street; Davison Street from Fairmount Avenue to a point three hundred (300') feet northeasterly therefrom; Grove Street; Pierce Street from Fairmount Avenue to a point three hundred (300') feet northeasterly therefrom; Knott Street from Fairmount Avenue to a point three hundred (300') feet easterly therefrom; Railroad Avenue from Fairmount Avenue to a point three hundred (300') feet northeasterly therefrom; Station Street from the Neponset River to a point three hundred (300') feet northeasterly from Fairmount Avenue; Walnut Street from Fairmount Avenue to a point three hundred (300') feet southwesterly therefrom; Maple Street from Fairmount Avenue to a point one hundred twenty-five (125') feet westerly therefrom.(Rev. Ord. 1898 c. 45 § 27; Ord. 1912 c. 5; Ord. 1913 c. 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 53)Cross-reference:	St. 1938 c. 479 § 202 (Boston Building Code);	  Ord. § 7-4.99-4	BOARD OF APPEAL.Editor’s Note:	The Building Department and the Housing	  Inspection Department were abolished and all	  powers and duties transferred to the	  Inspectional Services Department by Ch. 19 	  of the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this	  Code).	9-4.1	Board Members.	There shall be in the Building Department a Board, known as the Board of Appeal, consisting of five (5) members appointed by the Mayor as follows: one member from two (2) candidates nominated, one by The Boston Society of Architects and one by the Boston Society of Civil Engineers, one member from two (2) candidates nominated by the Building Trades 
	904
9-4	BUILDING REGULATION	9-8
Council of Boston and Vicinity, one member from two (2) candidates nominated, one by the Greater Boston Real Estate Board and one by the Massachusetts Real Estate Association, one member from three (3) candidates nominated, one by The Master Builders’ Association of Boston, one by the Building Trades Employers’ Association of the City of Boston and one by the Associated General Contractors of Massachusetts, Inc., and one member selected at large by the Mayor. All members of the Board of Appeal shall be residents of, or engaged in business in, Boston. As the term of any member in office expires, his successor shall be appointed in like manner as such member for a term of five (5) years. Vacancies in the Board shall be filled in the same manner for the unexpired term. No member of the Board shall act in any case in which he has a personal interest; and when a member is so disqualified or absent or when there is a vacancy in the office of a member, the remaining members shall designate a substitute.	The Board of Appeal shall not be subject to the supervision or control of the Building Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the Board of Appeal shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make any annual or other report, except through the Building Commissioner.(St. 1938 c. 479; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 21; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 150)Cross-reference:	Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 9-3	9-4.2	Powers and Duties.	The Board of Appeal shall exercise the powers and perform the duties set forth in Sections 117, 118 and 119 of the Boston Building Code, and Section 19 of Chapter 488 of the Acts of 1924.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 151)Cross-reference:	St. 1924 c. 488 § 19; St. 1938 c. 479 § § 117,	  118, 1199-5	ZONING COMMISSION.Editor’s Note:	The Building Department and the Housing	  Inspection Department were abolished and all	  powers and duties transferred to the	  Inspectional Services Department by Ch. 19 of	  the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this	  Code).
	9-5.1	Board, Powers and Duties.	There shall be in the Building Department a Board, known as the Zoning Commission, provided for by Section 1 of Chapter 665 of the Acts of 1956, as amended. Said Board shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by statute. Said Board shall not be subject to the supervision or control of the Building Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the Zoning Commission shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make an annual or other report, except through the Building Commissioner.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 200)Cross-reference:	St. 1956 c. 655 § 1; Ord. § 9-3	9-5.2	Designating Zoning Commissioners as Special Municipal Employees.	The Zoning Commissioners shall be deemed to be Special Municipal Employees for the purposes of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 268A.(Ord. 1988 c. 3 § 1 S201)9-6	BEACON HILL ARCHITECTURAL COMMISSION.	No Ordinances Apply. See Special Statutes.(CBC 1975 St. T9 c. 9)9-7	BACK BAY ARCHITECTURAL COMMISSION.	No Ordinances Apply. See Special Statutes.(CBC 1975 St. T 9 c. 11)9-8	BOARD OF EXAMINERS.Editor’s Note: 	The Building Department and the Housing	  Inspection Department were abolished and all	  powers and duties transferred to the	  Inspectional Services Department by Ch. 19 of	  the Ordinances of 1981 (Section 9-9 of this	  Code).
	905
9-8	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
	9-8.1	Appointment, Term, Compensation.	There shall be in the Building Department a Board, known as the Board of Examiners, consisting of three (3) members appointed by the Mayor, of whom one shall be an architect or engineer with at least five (5) years’ experience in the City, one a contractor or person well qualified in the supervision of construction work with at least five (5) years’ experience in the City, and one a lawyer or other person with proper legal qualifications. As the term of any member expires, his successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of three (3) years. Vacancies in the Board shall filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term.	The Board of Examiners shall not be subject to the supervision or control of the Building Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, the Board of Examiners shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make an annual or other report, except through the Building Commissioner.(St. 1912 c. 713; Ord. 1912 c. 9; St. 1938 c. 479 § 120; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 22; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 350)Cross-reference:	Ord. Section 2-7; Ord. Section 9-3	9-8.2	Powers and Duties.	Said Board shall exercise the powers, perform the duties and issue licenses as set forth in Section 120 of the Boston Building Code.(Ord. 1956 c. 7 § 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 9 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T9 § 351)Cross-reference:	St. 1938 c. 4799-9	INSPECTIONAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT.Editor’s Note:	Ch. 6 of the Ordinances of 1985 repealed this	  section. A decision of the Mass. Appeals	  Court, 24 Mass. App. Ct. 663 (1987),	  however held said ordinance invalid.	9-9.1	Establishment.	There shall be in the City, a Department known as the Inspectional Services Department, which shall 
be under the charge of an Officer known as the Commissioner, appointed by the Mayor, who shall have the powers and perform the duties imposed upon him or her by law, and who shall be compensated as an officer within Category I of subsection 5-5.10 of the Code of Ordinances. The Inspectional Services Department shall have and exercise all of the duties imposed upon it by law including but not limited to the duties formerly held and exercised by the Building Commissioner, the Housing Inspection Commissioner and any other Commissioner or Department whose duties were transferred to the Inspectional Services Department by prior amendments of this code. The Commissioner shall prepare and keep current a statement of the organization of the Department, including the assignment of functions to the various offices and employees.(Ord. 1981 c. 19; Ord. 1994 c. 1 § 1; Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 2)	9-9.2—9-9.3	Reserved.Editor’s Note:	Former subsections 9-9.2, Commissioner and	  9-9.3, Joint Appointment, previously codified	  herein and containing portions of Ordinance	  Nos. 1981 c. 19 and 1994 c. 1, were repealed	  in their entirety by Ordinance No. 1995 c. 8.	9-9.4	Empowered to Accept Delegation.	The Board of Health and Hospitals may delegate to the Inspectional Services Department the enforcement of any statute, ordinance or regulation heretofore enforced by, or adopted by, said Board. Any other Board, Officer, Department or Commission may, subject to the approval of the City Council, delegate to the Inspectional Services Department the enforcement of any statute, ordinance or regulation heretofore enforced by or duly adopted by such Board, Officer, Department or Commission. The Inspectional Services Department is hereby empowered to accept such delegation and may exercise any and all powers necessary or convenient in furtherance of any such delegation. Notice of such delegation shall be filed with the City Clerk.(Ord. 1981 c. 19)
	906
9-9	BUILDING REGULATION	9-9
	9-9.5	Board of Appeal and Board of Examiners.	The Board of Appeal and Board of Examiners are hereby transferred to the Inspectional Services Department but neither shall be under the supervision or control of said Department.(Ord. 1981 c. 19)	9-9.6	Administrative Units.	The Commissioner may from time to time, establish within the Department such administrative units within Divisions as may be necessary for the efficient and economical administration of the Department, and when necessary for such purpose, he may abolish or merge any such administrative units within Divisions as he may deem advisable. Subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council, the Commissioner may establish, abolish, or merge Divisions. The Commissioner shall prepare and keep current a statement of the organization of the Department, of the assignment of functions to its various administrative units, offices, and employees, and of the place at which and the methods whereby the public may receive information or make requests.(Ord. 1981 c. 19)	9-9.7	The Building and Housing Inspection Departments.	The Building Department and the Housing Inspection Department of the City are hereby respectively abolished. All powers, duties and appropriations of said Departments are hereby transferred to the Inspectional Services Department created by subsection 9-9.1 of this section; and every person holding in said or other Departments an office or position subject to the Civil Service Law and Rules shall be transferred without Civil Service examination or registration to a similar office or position in the Inspectional Services Department without impairment of his Civil Service rights or his retirement, seniority, vacation or sick leave rights; and his services shall be deemed to have been continuous to the same extent as if such abolition had not taken place.(Ord. 1981 c. 19)	9-9.8	Site Cleanliness Licenses.	No person shall operate or maintain an automotive establishment, a food and beverage establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, a donation collection bin, or a bulk refuse container 
without first obtaining the site cleanliness license required by this subsection or unless the same is maintained in accordance with said license and any regulation promulgated hereunder.	a.	Definitions. As used in this subsection, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given in the following clauses. Where words and phrases are not defined in the following clauses, such words and phrases shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.	Automotive Establishments shall mean autobody shop, car wash, garage, gasoline station, motor vehicle repair garage or lot, retail business establishment or other place for the sale, service, repair, or installation of new or used motor vehicles, new or used motor vehicle parts, new or used tires, or new or used motor vehicle accessories, whether or not vehicles are serviced or parts or accessories are installed or used on or off the premises.	Bulk Refuse Containers shall mean dumpsters, trash compactors, or any other container or receptacle where recyclable materials, debris, refuse, trash, solid waste or like material are contained or stored in any quantity for any period of time.	Bulk Refuse Container Storage Lot shall mean lot for the storage, repair, or maintenance of empty or loaded dumpsters, roll-off containers, trash compactors or any other container or receptacle where debris, refuse, solid waste, trash, recyclable material, or like material, are contained or stored in any quantity for any period of time.	Donation Collection Bin shall mean any container or receptacle, at or on the exterior property areas of any premise, held out to the public as a place for people to drop off articles of clothing and/or other household items.	Food, Beverage Establishments shall mean restaurant, lunchroom, cafeteria, drive in restaurant, take out restaurant, night club, bar or tavern or other retail business establishment open to the public for the sale or service of food, food products or beverages, whether the food, food products or beverages are prepared for consumption on premises; or where food, food products and beverages are sold or served in disposable containers; or where the establishment provides disposable tableware, napkins, containers, condiments or other disposable material to the public as a usual business practice.
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	907
9-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
	Lot shall mean a parcel of land including land under water, whether or not platted, in single ownership, and not divided by a street.	Site Cleanliness License shall mean the license required by this subsection and issued by the Inspectional Services Department upon satisfactory review of the site cleanliness license application and Site Cleanliness Plan.	Site Cleanliness Plan shall mean an operational and maintenance plan for each automotive establishment, food/beverage establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, or any bulk refuse storage container governed by this subsection. The plan shall also include all information included in the Site Cleanliness Plan application as discussed in paragraph d. below.	b.	Applicability. The Site Cleanliness Ordinance shall apply to all existing and future automotive establishments, food and beverage establishments, bulk refuse container storage lots, donation collection bins, and bulk refuse containers located within the City.	c.	License Required for Site Cleanliness of Establishments, Donation Collection Bins and Bulk Refuse Containers. No automotive establishment, food/beverage establishment, or bulk container storage lot shall operate, and no bulk refuse container or donation collection bin shall be used, without first obtaining a site cleanliness license from the Commissioner of Inspectional Services. If the Commissioner of Inspectional Services determines that a submitted site cleanliness license application is accurate and adequate to keep the site free from debris, refuse, trash, solid waste or like material that is injurious to the public health, safety, and environment, the Commissioner shall issue a site cleanliness license for the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, or bulk refuse container. Performance of the activities scheduled in the Site Cleanliness Plan shall be a condition of the license and nonperformance of the activities scheduled in the Site Cleanliness Plan shall be a violation of the license and conditions of this subsection.  An operator of donation collection bins shall only need one (1) license for any donation collection bins he/she operates. Operators of donation collection bins shall not be required to submit 
a Site Cleanliness Plan as a condition of the license, but said operators must meet the additional requirements outlined in subsection (d) and meeting these requirements shall be a condition of the license and nonperformance of the activities specifically pertaining to donation collection bins shall be a violation of the license.	d.	Contents of License Application. A complete site cleanliness license application consists of a completed application form and a Site Cleanliness Plan attached thereto. The site cleanliness application form shall be in a form approved by the Commissioner. A Site Cleanliness Plan shall, at a minimum, include the following information:		1.	The address of the lot on which the establishment is located;		2.	The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the lot;		3.	The name, address, and telephone number of the operator of the establishment located on the lot;		4.	The type of establishment and nature of its business;		5.	A plot plan accurately depicting the lot;		6.	The location of any bulk refuse container and the location of the bulk refuse container in relation to all abutting lots;		7.	A weekly schedule detailing the times and days of the week for cleaning and maintaining the site free of windblown litter and refuse;		8.	The name of a supervisor responsible for overseeing the cleaning and maintenance of the site;		9.	The name and address of the waste hauling company responsible for servicing the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, or bulk refuse container;		10.	The date, time, and frequency of service by the waste hauling company;
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	908
9-9	BUILDING REGULATION	9-9
		11.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Department of Environmental Protection relating to the management, storage, and disposal of solid wastes and hazardous materials and hazardous wastes generated, stored, or disposed on site;		12.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Boston Fire Department;		13.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Inspectional Services Department;		14.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Public Works Department;		15.	The name, address, and phone number of the pest control company servicing the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, or bulk refuse container;		16.	Any fencing or screening required; and		17.	Any other information required by the Inspectional Services Department to ensure the site is maintained in a sanitary condition free of debris, refuse, trash, solid waste or like material that is injurious to the public health, safety, and environment.	Operators of donation collection bins shall not be required to submit a completed Site Cleanliness Plan as outlined above, but shall be required to provide the information required by subsections 1, 3, 7, 8 and 17, inclusive, as it pertains to all donation collection bins in operation. The name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons responsible for maintaining each donation collection bin must also be posted and plainly visible on each operator's donation collection bins. In addition to the requirements outlined in section g., operators of donation collection bins must also provide the Inspectional Services Department with the regular interval schedule for all bins in operation at which the operator collects the items donated and performs regular maintenance. Said interval shall not be greater than thirty (30) days. Any operator of a donation collection box must provide the Inspectional Services Department with written authorization from all owners of all lots upon which they operate a donation collection bin stating that the operator has the owner's permission to operate a donation collection box on
said lot. If after receiving an annual site cleanliness license the operator of a donation collection bin plans on placing a new donation collection bin anywhere in the City, the operator must first apply for an updated site cleanliness license and provide all required information pertaining to the new bin.	e.	Screening/Fencing Requirements. All bulk refuse containers maintained by establishments governed by this ordinance shall be screened or fenced off from view from public ways, sidewalks, and adjoining properties at all sites other than construction sites, unless said screening would eliminate disposal access to the bulk refuse container.	f.	Posting Requirements. The Site Cleanliness Plan and site cleanliness license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises in public view.  This requirement shall not apply to premises containing a donation collection bin, but the license shall be posted directly on said bin.	g.	Inspections.		1.	Authority. In order to properly carry out their respective responsibilities under this Ordinance, and to ensure that the public health, safety and environment are protected from the hazards posed by unsanitary and unhealthy conditions, the Inspectional Services Department is authorized to enter, examine, or survey at any reasonable time all establishments, donation collection bins and bulk refuse containers licensed hereunder.		2.	Systematic Area Inspections. The Inspectional Services Department is authorized to develop and adopt plans for systematic, periodic area-wide inspections of establishments, bulk refuse container storage lots, donation collection bins and bulk refuse containers required to obtain a site cleanliness license.		3.	Interference With Inspection. If any owner, occupant, or other person refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to the site, operation, or premise where inspection is authorized by this subsection, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of the site and apprises the owner, occupant, or other person concerning the 
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp.8	909
9-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, and justification for it and may seek the assistance of the police authorities in presenting said warrant.	h.	Violation. The operation or maintenance of any establishment, donation collection bin or bulk refuse container governed by this subsection without a site cleanliness license; the failure to operate or maintain the same in accordance with a validly issued site cleanliness license; and the interference with an inspection, including inspections conducted a pursuant to a validly issued inspection warrant.	i.	Service of Notice of Violation. Notice of violation shall be served on all owners, operators, and all other persons responsible for the operation and maintenance of the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, or bulk refuse container.  Notice of violation shall be served on the operator of the donation collection bin. The notice of violation shall be served in the following manner:		1.	Personally, by any person authorized to serve civil process; or		2.	By any person authorized to serve civil process by leaving a copy of the notice of violation at the last and usual place of abode of the violator; or		3.	By sending a copy of the order by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, if within the Commonwealth; or		4.	If the last and usual place of abode of the violator is unknown or outside the Commonwealth, by posting a copy of the notice of violation in a conspicuous place on or about the premises and by advertising it for at least three (3) out of five (5) consecutive days in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the City.	j.	Administrative Hearings.		1.	Right to Hearing. Any person upon whom a notice of violation has been served may request a hearing from the Inspectional Services Department by filing a written petition requesting a hearing on the matter with the Department within seven days after the day the notice of violation was served.
		2.	Hearing Notice. Upon receipt of a petition, the Inspectional Services Department shall inform the petitioner of the date, time, and place of the hearing in writing.		3.	Time for Hearing. The hearing shall commence within thirty days after the day on which the notice of violation was served. The time period in which the cited violations must be remedied shall be stayed upon receipt of the petition for a hearing until such time as the hearing is held.		4.	Hearing of Petitioner. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses or documentary evidence, and to show why the notice of violation should be modified or withdrawn. An official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available to the petitioner upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period specified herein shall not affect the validity of any notice of violation.		5.	Final Decision After Hearing; Failure to Comply with Final Order.			(a)	Within seven (7) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Inspectional Services Department shall sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice of violation and shall inform the petitioner in writing of its decision and the reasons therefore. If the Department sustains or modifies the notice of violation, said violation shall be remedied within the time period allotted in the original notice of violation or in the modification.			(b)	If a written petition for a hearing is not filed with the Inspectional Services Department within seven (7) days after the notice of violation has been served, or if after a hearing the notice of violation has been sustained in any part, each day’s failure to comply with the notice of violation within the time allotted as issued or modified shall constitute an additional offense.	k.	Judicial Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Inspectional Services Department with respect to the denial of a site cleanliness license, the revocation of a site cleanliness license, the issuance of a notice of violation, or any other order issued under this subsection by the Inspectional Services Department, may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of the Commonwealth.
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp.8	910
9-9	BUILDING REGULATION	9-9
	l.	Penalties.		1.	Failure to Obtain Site Cleanliness License. If a person operates an establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, donation collection bin or bulk refuse container without first obtaining a site cleanliness license, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, donation collection bin or bulk refuse container until a site cleanliness license is secured.		2.	Failure to Comply With Terms of Site Cleanliness License. If a licensee fails to comply with the terms of a site cleanliness license, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may suspend the site cleanliness license, after an administrative hearing, and seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment, bulk refuse container storage lot, donation collection bin or bulk refuse container until the licensee proves to the court its compliance with the site cleanliness license. If a licensee fails to comply with the terms of the site cleanliness license three (3) times in the preceding twelve (12) month period, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may suspend, cancel, or revoke the site cleanliness license after an administrative hearing. In the event of suspension or cancellation of the site cleanliness license, other municipal agencies issuing licenses will be so notified.		3.	Failure to Comply with Notice of Violation. Any person who fails to comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to this subsection by the Inspectional Services Department, or its duly appointed agents or representatives, shall be fined one thousand ($1,000) dollars per violation per day. Each day’s failure to comply with a notice of violation or any other order shall constitute a separate violation.  Notwithstanding, any person who operates a donation collection bin and fails to comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to this subsection by the Inspectional Services Department, or its duly appointed agents or representatives, shall be fined one hundred ($100.00) dollars.		4.	Interference After Inspection Warrant Presented. Any owner, occupant, or other person who
refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and free access to every part of the structure, site, operation or premises where inspection is sought under this subsection after an inspection warrant has been obtained and presented in accordance with paragraph g, 3. of this subsection, shall be fined one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars.		5.	Fines. All fines and penalties assessed and collected under this subsection may be enforced pursuant to G.L. c. 40, section 21D.	m.	Site Cleanliness License Fee. The fee for the site cleanliness license shall be fifty ($50.00) dollars.  In the case of operators of donation collection bins updating their site cleanliness license during the valid annual license period, the fee shall be ten ($10.00) dollars.	n.	Term of License. The term of each license shall be one (1) year. Annually on a date set by the Commissioner, all persons who operate or maintain food/beverage establishments, automotive establishments, bulk refuse container storage lots, donation collection bins and bulk refuse containers shall file, renew, or amend a Site Cleanliness Plan and obtain a new site cleanliness license. Operators of donation collection bins shall not be required to submit a Site Cleanliness Plan.	o.	Severability. If any section provided for under this subsection shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, that decision shall not affect any other portion of this subsection, which shall remain in full force and effect; and to this end the provisions of this subsection are hereby declared severable.	p.	Regulatory Authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to enforce this subsection.	q.	Delegation of Authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services may delegate enforcement of this subsection to any City department authorized to enforce public safety, health, or environmental laws and regulations.(Ord. 1999 c. 5; Ord. 2008 c. 15; Ord. 2010 c. 3)
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	911
9-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
	9-9.9	Auto Shops Licenses.	No person shall operate or maintain an automotive establishment without first obtaining the auto shops license required by this section or unless the same is maintained in accordance with said license and any regulation promulgated hereunder.	a.	Definitions. As used in this subsection, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given in the following clauses. Where words and phrases are not defined in the following clauses such words and phrases shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.		Automotive establishments. Auto body shop, car wash, garage, gasoline station, motor vehicle repair garage or lot, retail business establishment or other place for the sale, service, repair or installation of new or used motor vehicles, new or used motor vehicle parts, new or used tires or new or used motor vehicle accessories, whether or notthe vehicles are serviced or parts or accessories are installed or used on or off the premises.		Cease and desist order. A serious enforcement action, which requires the wrongful party to halt production, service or a particular practice at its facility.		Class I, II, and III liquids. The Massachusetts State Board of Building Regulations and Standards has classified flammable and combustible liquids as Class IA, IB, IC, II, and III based on the temperature at which the liquids give off enough vapors to cause a fire hazard. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has developed specific regulations regarding the storage of these liquids.		Combustible liquid. Any liquids having a flash point at or above one hundred (100) degrees Fahrenheit shall be known as Class II or Class III liquid. Combustible liquids shall be divided into the following classifications:			Class II: Liquids having flash points at or above one hundred (100) degrees Fahrenheit and below one hundred forty (140) degrees Fahrenheit.
			Class IIIA: Liquids having a flash point at or above one hundred forty (140) degrees Fahrenheit and below two hundred (200) degrees Fahrenheit.			Class IIIB: Liquids having a flash point at or above two hundred (200) degrees Fahrenheit.		Contingency plan. A document setting out an organized, planned, and coordinated course of action to be followed in case of fire, explosion or other accident that releases toxic chemicals, hazardous waste or radioactive materials that threaten human health or the environment.		Cutting and welding. An auto body repair activity that can create noxious fumes and potentially release metal fines and sparks to the environment.		Engineering controls. Mechanical controls and equipment that are designed to protect worker health and safety (such as ventilation, alarms and filters).		Environmental, health, and safety (EHS) program. A program developed by a workplace or business to protect the environment and worker safety. An EHS program incorporates and implements procedures that help ensure chemicals and activities are managed in a safe and environmentally sound manner.		Environmental liability. The legal liability that a company or a person incurs if it owns or operates a shop that violates an environmental law or causes damage to the surrounding environment as a result of the company’s or person’s operations.		Flammable liquid. A liquid that has a flash point below one hundred (100) degrees Fahrenheit and has vapor pressure not exceeding forty (40) pounds per square inch (PSI) at one hundred (100) degrees Fahrenheit.		Hazard assessment. The review and evaluation of a shop’s operations for potential health injuries or disease that may be caused by a chemical, process, or facility design and the conditions of 
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912
9-9	BUILDING REGULATION	9-9
exposure under which such health effects are produced. This assessment is used to identify appropriate precautions that workers should take when performing certain shop activities.		Hazardous air pollutant (HAP). Air pollutants that are not covered by ambient air quality standards but which reasonably may be expected to cause or contribute to irreversible illness or death, according to the Clean Air Act Amendments. Such pollutants include: benzene, chromium compounds, hexane, methyl isocyanates, styrene, toluene, and vinyl chloride.		Hazard communication program. An OSHA-required program developed by a firm or workplace which identifies potential hazards associated with workplace activities and outlines procedures that will be undertaken by all employees to prevent injury and in the event of a chemical exposure or accident.		Hazardous waste. Waste generated by a business or residence that can pose a substantial or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly managed. These are defined as wastes that possess at least one of the four characteristics (ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity or toxicity) or wastes that are determined to be hazardous by definition and are listed as such by EPA or states.		Hazardous waste generator. Any facility that generates waste. Generators are regulated based on how much waste they generate.		Hazardous waste manifest. A multi-part form that is used to track each hazardous waste shipment from its point of generation to its ultimate disposal or treatment. The use of these forms is required under EPA or DEP hazardous waste requirements. These forms list the generator identification number, the name of the waste generator, all waste transporters, the name of the designated receiving facility, and the quality and type of hazardous waste being shipped.		Imminent threat or hazard. An activity or condition that poses an immediate danger to human health or the environment.
		Lot. A parcel of land including land under water, whether or not platted, in single ownership, and not divided by a street.		Material safety data sheets (MSDS). Printed documents generated by chemical manufacturers that describe the contents of a material, its hazards, appropriate protection measures, and other health and safety and emergency information.		Oil-water separator. Also called a grease trap or gas trap. Used to separate industrial wastewater before it is discharged to a floor drain, sanitary sewer, industrial septic system or the ground. The separator physically removes the oil and particles from the wastewater because floating oil and particles will separate from the water in the unit. The sludge and oil must be collected and managed as a hazardous waste or oil waste.		Operation hours. The daily time period during which the licensed automotive establishment conducts and provides services to the public.		Personal protective equipment (PPE). Any health and safety equipment used to protect workers from potentially harmful materials or activities. PPE includes goggles, gloves, respirators, steel-toed boots, earplugs, and more.		Pollution Prevention (P2). The implementation of activities or practices that avoid the use and generation of environmentally harmful materials. Common P2 activities include reducing toxics use, using non-toxic alternatives, improving efficiency and therefore reducing waste, recycling or reusing materials and modifying operations to avoid the need for materials that are, or may become, environmentally harmful.		Reactive waste. Waste that is capable of reacting with other chemicals, is normally unstable, and can undergo violent changes with or without exploding. A reactive waste may respond violently with water and may generate toxic gas, vapor or fumes when mixed with water.		Reportable quantity (RQ). The amount of oil or hazardous material released to the environment that would require you to notify the proper authorities.
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.1
9-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
		Satellite accumulation area. Area where hazardous waste is accumulated in a container until the container becomes full and is moved to a hazardous waste storage/accumulation area. Waste in this area must be at, or near, the point of generation and under the control of the process operator at all times.		Spray area. Any area where dangerous quantities of flammable or combustible vapors, mists, residues, dusts, or deposits are present due to the operation of spray painting or coating processes. According to NFPA Code 33, the spray area includes areas inside the spray booth or spray room, as well as ducts exhausting from spray-painting process. When spray areas are not confined adequately, the spray area may extend out to the entire room.		Spray booth. A structure which encloses a spraying operation to limit the escape of spray, vapor, and residue, and which conducts these materials to an exhaust system. A spray booth is fully enclosed, ventilated, and equipped with fire prevention and safety equipment. Generally a spray booth has three (3) walls and one (1) open side.		Toxic waste. A waste that can produce injury if inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through the skin.		Violation. The operation or maintenance of any establishment governed by this section without an auto shops license; the failure to operate or maintain the same in accordance with a validly issued auto shops license; and the interference with an inspection conducted pursuant to a validly issued inspection warrant.		Volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Any organic compound that can alter the chemical makeup of the atmosphere through photochemical reactions. These compounds are called volatile because they can become a vapor at room temperature and pressure. Most paints and solvents used in auto body shops contain VOCs.	b.	Applicability; zoning review. The auto shops license shall apply to all existing and future automotive establishments located within the City.  After an auto shops license application has been submitted to the Inspectional Services Department, a complete plan review shall be conducted to ensure the
establishment is in compliance with the zoning code. If proper zoning is not met, the application must be submitted to the City of Boston Zoning Board of Appeal for a variance.	c.	License required for auto shops establishments. No automotive establishment shall operate without first obtaining an auto shops license from the Commissioner of Inspectional Services. If the Commissioner of Inspectional Services determines that a submitted auto shops license application is accurate and adequate to keep the site free of hazardous waste or like material that is injurious to the public health, safety and environment, the Commissioner shall issue an auto shops license for the establishment. Performance of the activities scheduled in the auto shops plan shall be a condition of the license and nonperformance of the activities scheduled in the auto shops plan shall be a violation of the license and conditions of this section. All auto shops shall operate using best industry practices during the allowed hours of operation indicated in their licenses.	d.	Contents of license application. A complete auto shops license application consists of a completed application form and an auto shops plan attached thereto. The auto shops application form shall be in a form approved by the Commissioner. An auto shops plan shall, at a minimum, include the following information:		1.	The address where the establishment is located;		2.	The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the establishment;		3.	The name, address, and telephone number of the operator of the establishment;		4.	A weekly schedule detailing the time and days of the week of the operation hours for the automotive establishment;		5.	A weekly schedule detailing the times and days of the week for cleaning and maintaining the establishment free of waste and hazardous material;		6.	The name of a supervisor responsible for overseeing the cleaning and maintenance of the shop;
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.2
9-9	BUILDING REGULATION	9-9
		7.	The name and address of the waste hauling company responsible for servicing the establishment;		8.	The date, time, and frequency of service by the waste hauling company;		9.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Department of Environmental Protection relating to the management, storage and disposal of solid wastes and hazardous materials and hazardous wastes generated, stored, or disposed on site;		10.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Public Safety Committee ;		11.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Boston Police Department;		12.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Inspectional Services Department;		13.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Public Works Department;		14.	Any other information required by the Inspectional Services Department to ensure the site is maintained in a sanitary condition free of solid waste, hazardous materials or like material that is injurious to the public health, safety, and environment; and		15.	Any and all permits and/or licenses issued by the Boston Public Health Commission.	e.	Posting requirements. The auto shops plan and auto shops license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises in public view.	f.	Inspections.		1.	Authority. In order to properly carry out their respective responsibilities under this section,and to ensure that the public health, safety and environment are protected from the hazards posed by unsanitary and unhealthy conditions, the Inspectional Services Department is authorized to enter, examine or survey at any reasonable time all establishments licensed hereunder.		2.	Systematic area inspections. The Inspectional Services Department is authorized to
develop and adopt plans for systematic, periodic area-wide inspections of establishments required to obtain an auto shops license.		3.	Interference with inspector. If any owner, occupant or person refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to the site, operation or premise where inspection is authorized by this section, the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of the site and surprises the owner, occupant or other person concerning the nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, and the justification for it and may seek the assistance of the police authorities in presenting said warrant.	g.	Violation. The operation or maintenance of any establishment governed by this section without an auto shops license; the failure to operate or maintain the same in accordance with a validly issued autoshops license and auto shops plan; and the interference with an inspection conducted pursuant to a validly issued inspection warrant.		1.	Regulation. No fine shall be issued under the auto shops license but shall be issued under the State Sanitary Code G.L. c. 111, sections 122, 123 and 125.		2.	Timeframe. After an auto shops establishment has been cited, by the Commissioner of Inspectional Services or his or her designee, for failure to comply with a validly issued auto shops license the owner, occupant or person responsible for the operation or maintenance of the establishment shall have seven (7) days in which to comply, or, in an emergency, as determined by the inspector from Inspectional Services, twenty-four (24) hours.		3.	Fine schedule. Citations for failure to comply with this section will be issued by ISD through a code enforcement ticket. A clearly defined and progressive fine schedule would result in the following:	1st Offense			     $100.00	2nd Offense			     $250.00	3rd and subsequent	     $500.00	offenses
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.3
9-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
	h.	Service of notice of violation. Notice of violation shall be served on all owners, operators, and on all other persons responsible for the operation and maintenance of the establishment. The notice of violation shall be served in the following manner:		1.	Personally, by any person authorized to serve civil process;		2.	By any person authorized to serve civil process by leaving a copy of the notice of violation at the last and usual place of abode of the violator;		3.	By sending a copy of the order by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, if within the Commonwealth; or		4.	If the last and usual place of abode of the violator is unknown or is outside the Commonwealth, by posting a copy of the notice of violation in a conspicuous place on or about the premises and by advertising it for at least three (3) out of five (5) consecutive days in one (1) or more newspapers of general circulation within the City.	i.	Administrative hearings.		1.	Right to hearing. Any person upon whom a notice of violation has been served may request a hearing from the Inspectional Services Department by filing a written petition requesting a hearing on the matter within the Department within seven (7) days after the day the notice of violation was served.		2.	Hearing notice. Upon receipt of a petition, the Inspectional Services Department shall inform the petitioner of the date, time, and place of the hearing in writing.		3.	Time for hearing. The hearing shall commence within thirty (30) days after the day on which the notice of violation was served. The time period in which the cited violations must be remedied shall be stayed upon receipt of the petition for a hearing until such time as the hearing is held.		4.	Hearing of petitioner. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard, to present witness or documentary evidence, and to show why the notice of violation should be
modified or withdrawn. An official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available to the petitioner upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period specified herein shall not affect the validity of any notice of violation.		5.	Final decision after hearing; failure to comply with final order.			a.	Within seven (7) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Inspectional Services Department shall sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice of violation and shall inform the petitioner, in writing, of its decision and the reasons therefor. If the department sustains or modifies the notice of violation, said violation shall be remedied within the time period allotted as issued or in the modification.			b.	If a written petition for a hearing is not filed with the Inspectional Services Department within seven (7) days after the notice of violation has been served, or if, after a hearing, the notice ofviolation has been sustained in any part, each day’s failure to comply with the notice of violation within the time allotted as issued or modified shall constitute an additional offense.	j.	Judicial appeals. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Inspectional Services Department with respect to the denial of an auto shops license, the revocation of an auto shops license, the issuance of a notice of violation, or any other order issued under this section by the Inspectional Services Department, may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of the Commonwealth.	k.	Penalties.		1.	Failure to obtain an auto shops license. If a person operates an automotive establishment without first obtaining an auto shops license, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment until an auto shops license is secured.		2.	Failure to comply with terms of the auto shops license. If a licensee fails to comply with the terms of an auto shops license, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may suspend the auto shops 
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.4
9-9	BUILDING REGULATION	9-9
license, after an administrative hearing, and seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction prohibiting the operation of the establishment until the licensee proves to the court its compliance with the auto shops license. If a licensee fails to comply with the terms of the auto shops license three (3) times in the proceeding year, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services may suspend, cancel or revoke the auto shops license after an administrative hearing. In the event of suspension or cancellation of the auto shops license other municipal agencies issuing licenses will be so notified.		3.	Failure to comply with notice of violation. Any person who fails to comply with any notice of violation or other order issued pursuant to this section by the Inspectional Services Department, or its duly appointed agents or representatives, shall be fined one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars per violation per day. Each day’s failure to comply with a notice of violation or any other order shall constitute a separate violation.		4.	Interference after inspection warrant presented. Any owner, occupant, or other person who refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and free access to every part of the structure, site operation or premises where inspection is sought under this section after an inspection warrant has been obtained and presented in accordance with subsection (f)(3) of this section, shall be fined one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars.		5.	Fines. All fines and penalties assessed and collected under this section may be enforced pursuant to G. L. c. 40, section 21D and will remain the property of ISD.	l.	Auto shops license fee. The fee for the auto shops license shall be one hundred ($100.00) dollars. It is renewable on an annual basis and requires a compliance inspection for the license to be issued.	m.	Term of license. The term of each license shall be one (1) year. Annually on the date set by the Commissioner, all persons who operate or maintain automotive establishments shall file, renew or amend an auto shops plan and obtain a new auto shops license.
	n.	Severability. If any subsection provided for under this section shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, that decision shall not affect any other portion of this section, which shall remain in full force and effect; and to this end the provisions of this section are hereby declared severable.	o.	Regulatory authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to enforce this section.	p.	Delegation of authority. The Commissioner of Inspectional Services may delegate enforcement of this section to any City Department authorized to enforce public safety, health, or environmental laws and regulations.(Ord. 2006 c. 9)	9-9.10	Inspection of Pool Roofs and Ceilings.	a.	Definitions. When used in this subsection, unless a contrary intention clearly appears, the following words shall have the following meanings:	Constructed swimming pool shall mean any swimming pool which has been built, erected or fabricated primarily with manufactured building materials including, but not limited to: cement, concrete, steel, tile, fiberglass or any combination thereto; and which possesses a water filtration, treatment, circulation or drainage system.	Enclosed swimming pool shall mean any constructed swimming pool which has above it any type of roof, ceiling or other covering.	Private swimming pool shall mean any constructed swimming pool which is used, or which is built for use, in connection with a family residence consisting of not more than three (3) individual residential units and available only to the family of the householder and his or her private guests.	Public and semi-public swimming pool shall mean any constructed swimming pool which is not a private swimming pool.
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.5
9-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
	b.	Special Permit Required for Use or Operation of Public or Semi-Public Enclosed Swimming Pool. No person or entity shall open, operate, or allow the use of a public or semi-public enclosed swimming pool unless he possesses a current and valid special permit from the Commissioner of the City of Boston Inspectional Services Department (“Commissioner”).	The Commissioner shall issue such special permit only after he has received satisfactory proof of inspection by a registered engineering firm which attests to the structural soundness of the roof, ceiling or other covering over the pool. The Commissioner shall have the authority to evaluate the sufficiency of any such proof and to refuse to issue a special permit if, in his sole discretion, he determines such proof to be insufficient or such attestation to be inaccurate.	The Commissioner shall also have the authority to inspect the roof, ceiling or other covering of a public or semi-public enclosed swimming pool before issuing or renewing a special permit. The special permit required under this section is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other permits or licenses which may be required by the Inspectional Services Department or other public authorities with respect to swimming pools.	c.	Term of Permit. A special permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be renewed on the same terms and in the same manners as the original issuance.	Any person or entity who continues to operate or allow the use of a public or semi-public enclosed swimming pool in violation of this subsection shall be assessed a fine pursuant to G.L. c. 40, s. 21 in the amount of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars for each day of non-compliance. The Commissioner is authorized to impose such a fine and to pursue any other available legal or equitable remedies for violation of this subsection.(Ord. 1989 c. 11 § 1)	9-9.11	Window Falls Prevention Program in the Department of Health and Hospitals.	a.	Definitions.	For the purposes of this subsection, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
	Child shall mean a person age six (6) years or under.	Board shall mean the Board of Health and Hospitals.	Department shall mean the Department of Health and Hospitals.	Installation shall mean the proper equipping of windows with window safety guards in accordance with regulations issued by the Board of Health and Hospitals.	Owner shall mean a person, who alone or severally has legal titles, or has charge or control in any capacity including, but not limited to, agent, executor, administrator, trustee or guardian; or any officer or trustee of a real estate trust or association of unit owners.	Tenant shall mean a lessee, or other regular occupant of a dwelling unit with or without a lease.	Window safety guard shall mean a device designed to restrict passage or access through a window of a child age six (6) or under.	b.	Established. There shall be a Window Falls Prevention Program established within the Department of Health and Hospitals. The purpose of said program shall be as follows: educating the public about the danger to children, age six (6) years and under, of falling from windows; and encouraging the voluntary installation by owners of window safety guards on windows in dwellings occupied by children age six (6) years and under.	c.	Information and Assistance to Public. The Program shall conduct citywide education and outreach efforts promoting awareness about the dangers to children, age six (6) years and under of falling from open or otherwise unprotected windows. Information and technical assistance shall be made available to the public on the steps and devices that may mitigate this serious problem. The Program shall work with any and all existing agencies and departments involved with children in its outreach efforts. The Window Falls Prevention Program will also encourage owners to voluntarily install window safety guards on windows in the dwellings occupied by children age six (6) years and under.(Ord. 1994 c. 19 §§ 1-3)
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.6
9-9	BUILDING REGULATION	9-9
	9-9.12	Inspection of Exterior Walls and Appurtenances of Buildings Requiring Periodic Inspection.	a.	Definitions.	Exterior walls and appurtenances shall mean (1) any exterior wall of a building over seventy (70') feet in height, or classified as a high rise structure, or (2) any exterior wall of an unoccupied building, of over thirty-five thousand (35,000) cubic feet and excluding residential buildings that are classified as three family, two family, or single family except as required by the Commissioner.	9-9.13	Regulating Access to Roof Areas			of Buildings with Residential Units.	a.	Purpose.  It is the intent of this section to protect and preserve public safety, security, and quiet enjoyment of occupants, abutters, and neighborhoods by (i) discouraging the inappropriate use of flat roof areas of residential buildings and (ii) regulating the use of and/or assembly of persons on flat roof areas and/or roof decks.	The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Building Department has enforcement authority pursuant to M.G.L. c. 143, s.3, the State Building Code, and the Zoning Code of the City of Boston.	b.	Definitions.  When used in this section, unless a contrary intention clearly appears, the following terms shall have the following meanings:	City shall mean City of Boston.	Door alarm shall mean a device which causes an alarm to sound whenever the door or hatchway to which it is attached is opened, provided that said device does not  substantially impede the opening and closing of the door or hatchway.  Any such device which can be temporarily deactivated through the use of a key, code, or other such measure, shall be considered to be within this definition, notwithstanding the fact that it can be so deactivated, provided that the device is designed to automatically reactivate itself within a reasonable time after the deactivation event takes place. Signage on or near the device will warn users of the presence of the alarm.
	Included structure shall mean any residential structure with a roof deck as defined below; not including owner occupied one or two family structures.	Owner shall mean any person(s) or entity that owns a building in the City of Boston, The rights and duties of the owner hereunder shall also be the rights and duties of any person(s) or entity that manages or controls the building.	Roof access point shall mean any doorway, passageway, or staircase through which access to any part of the roof of the building is provided that said door, passageway, or staircase connects to a portion of the interior of the building to which one (1) or more occupants has unimpeded access.	Roof deck shall mean a structure built on the roof of a building that is used for gardening, sunbathing, and other passive recreational purposes.  Flat roofs, or limited areas thereof, which do not have a structure built for such purposes but are accessible through a roof access point and could nevertheless be used for such purposes shall be included in this definition.		c.	Roof Deck Permits.  Roof deck permits shall be obtained by an owner by submitting a building permit application to the Inspectional Services Department.  The application shall contain any and all required plans, including but not limited to, a land survey, framing plans, and a report of a structural and safety evaluation performed and prepared by an architect or structural engineer registered/certified in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; the structural and safety evaluation shall consider and evaluate the structural capacity of the roof and the safety features of the roof/roof deck including but not limited to handrails, guardrails, lighting, and manner(s) of egress as may be required by the State Building Code or by the regulations of the Inspectional Services Department.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, no roof deck permit shall be required where:		1.	The roof deck is a flat roof, or limited area thereof, which does not have a structure built for such purpose, and;
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.7
9-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-9
		2.	The owner has either secured the roof access point(s) with a locking device(s) to the extent permitted by law or has installed a door alarm.	No roof deck may be issued a permit unless all legal requirements are met, such as zoning approval and landmark approval, as necessary; the applicant shall attach to the application copies of such approvals, if any.	No person may occupy, stand on, sit on, or use a roof deck that has not been issued a permit by the Inspectional Services Department (except for performing maintenance). No person may encourage, allow, or suffer an assembly of persons on a roof deck that has not been issued a permit by the Inspectional Services Department. Upon discovery of use or occupancy of a roof deck that does not have proof of a valid permit issued by the Inspectional Services Department, an officer of the Boston Police Department or an inspector of the Inspectional Services Department shall order the roof deck vacated until the process outlined in section c. is complete.	Inspections. The Inspectional Services Department shall have the discretion to establish the procedure by which compliance is determined, including but not limited to, determining when, how and by which professionals such inspections are to be made, including the certified documentation that is to be required for compliance, provided that their policies are reasonably calculated to ensure that every included structure in the City is inspected for compliance at least once every five (5) years.	d.	Roof Deck Complaints.  The Commissioner of Inspectional Services Department or his designee shall follow up on any credible complaint, to be defined by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department, that a structure is being used as a roof deck in violation of this section.  Within three (3) business days of receipt of a complaint under this section, the Inspectional Services Department shall determine whether or not a permit has been issued for use as a roof deck.  Upon investigation, if:		1.	No roof deck permit has been issued and the building is not otherwise in compliance as described in section c, then a Building Inspector shall, by means of a building code violation order the owner to come into compliance by either applying for or securing a permit for a roof deck or otherwise complying into compliance by installing a locking 
device to the extent permitted by law or door alarm as described in section c.		If the owner does not come into compliance within thirty (30) days after the violation is issued, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services Department may file a complaint in Housing Court.  Violations are written to the owner in the form of a building and/or zoning code violation and shall be subject to the penalties and fines of such building code and/or zoning code in addition to any penalties and fines authorized by this section.		2.	A valid roof deck permit has been issued and/or the roof deck is in compliance with this section (as described in section c.) and other existing laws, then the matter may be turned over to the Boston Police Department for further investigation of the complaint.		3.	No roof deck permit has been issued and the building is not otherwise in compliance as described in section c., and a second or subsequent credible complaint is received that a structure is being used as a roof deck in violation of this section, then the owner will be ordered to come into compliance as described in section d. 1. and simultaneously issued a violation as described in section d. 1.	e.	Enforcement and Penalties.  Each and every violation of this section or any regulations adopted hereunder is punishable by a fine of three hundred ($300.00) dollars for the first offense and five hundred ($500.00) dollars for each subsequent offense.  A violation of this section shall not be deemed to create any presumption of negligence by an owner.	f.	Regulatory Authority.  The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department and the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce this section.	g.	Severability.  If any provision of this section shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.	h.	Implementation.  The provisions of this section shall be effective ninety (90) days after passage.(Ord. 2007 c.12)
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	912.8
9-10	BUILDING REGULATION	9-10
	b.	Inspection Reports. Every exterior wall defined above shall be inspected in the case of an occupied structure at least once every five (5) years and in the case of an unoccupied structure at least once a year. The inspection shall be made and a report thereon prepared by a registered architect or engineer and shall be filed with the Commissioner together with a fee in the amount of one hundred ($100.00) dollars within thirty (30) days of the inspection.	The Commissioner shall issue an exterior wall certificate only after having received satisfactory proof of inspection and the inspection report of the architect or engineer reports a safe condition. And no structure referenced in said section shall be occupied without such certificate. Prior to issuing a certificate the Commissioner may in the Commissioner’s discretion require inspection by the Department at a charge of one hundred ($100.00) dollars which must be paid prior to issuance of the certificate.	The inspection report shall be a written report by the architect or engineer certifying the results of the examination clearly documenting the condition of the exterior walls and appurtenances thereto. The report shall include a record of all significant deterioration, unsafe conditions and movement observed as well as a statement regarding the water tightness of the exterior surfaces. Such report must be signed by, or bear the professional seal of, the registered architect or engineer.	Upon the filing of an inspection report indicating the existence of an unsafe condition, the Commissioner shall affix the appropriate violation on the structure and the owners, or agent, shall immediately commence repairs to remedy the violation.	The exterior wall certificate required under this section is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other permits or licenses which may be required by the Inspectional Services Department or other public authority concerning occupation or operation of the building or structure.	Any person or entity being the assessed owner (which shall include any trustee of a trust) or being the person in control of a structure requiring an exterior wall certificate who shall fail to have the structure inspected or fail to file the inspection report with the 
required fee or who shall suffer occupancy of such a structure without a valid certificate shall be punished by a fine of one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each day that such violation shall continue. This fine may be disposed of under the terms of G.L. c. 40, sec. 21D or in a criminal action.(Ord. 1995 c. 8 § 6)9-10	ARSON PREVENTION COMMISSION.	9-10.1	Composition of Commission.	There shall be in the City a Commission, known as the Arson Prevention Commission, consisting of the following officials of the City of Boston: the Fire Commissioner, the Police Commissioner, the Commissioner of Inspectional Services, the Collector/Treasurer, Commissioner of Real Property, and the Chairperson of the City Council’s committee dealing with the issue of arson, all serving ex officio. There shall be nine (9) Commissioners appointed by the Mayor. Eight (8) Commissioners appointed by the Mayor shall be residents of the City of Boston who live in areas affected by arson and have knowledge or expertise in the problem of arson. Of the nine (9) Commissioners appointed by the Mayor, one Commissioner shall be a representative of the Insurance industry that specifically deals with fire insurance for low/moderate income housing and knowledgeable about the problem of arson within the City of Boston, who need not be a resident of the City of Boston. Ex officio commissioners, or their designees, and mayoral appointed commissioners shall have the power to attend any meetings or hearing and to vote on any commission matter.	Mayoral appointed Commissioners shall serve a term of two (2) years.	The Commission shall elect one of its members as Chairman and another as Vice-Chairman to serve in these capacities for the term of one year. The Commissioners shall hire a Director, who shall not be a member of the Commission, and said Director shall be qualified by his or her knowledge of the activities and methods used in arson prevention programs. The Director shall have the title of Executive Director and shall be paid a salary established by the Mayor. The 
	913
9-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-11
Commissioners shall serve without compensation, and shall be deemed special municipal employees for the purposes of Chapter 268A of the General Laws.(Ord. 1983 c. 13; Ord. 1984 cs. 6, 9; Ord. 1987 c. 7 § 1; Ord. 1988 c. 10 §§ 1, 2; T9 [450])	9-10.2	Powers and Duties.	The Commission shall meet on a regular basis; shall study the problem of arson in the City; shall work with neighborhood organizations to implement remedies arrived at by studying the problem of arson in the City; shall from time to time, and at least twice a year on July 1 and January 1, make written reports to the Mayor and City Council assessing incidents of arson on a neighborhood basis and recommend means to prevent arson; shall conduct independently or in conjunction with appropriate agencies such programs relating to the prevention of arson in the City as the Commission deems necessary; and shall propose new programs as the Commission deems feasible in view of the particular program and the needs of the City in regard to arson prevention.	The Director shall be the executive officer of the Commission and shall have such powers to perform such duties as the Commission shall from time to time determine. The Director shall appoint, with Commission approval, other such personnel as the Commission may from time to time deem expedient. The Director and Commissioners, for the purposes of obtaining information under Chapter 446 of the Acts of 1978, shall be considered Public Safety Officials. The Director is empowered, on behalf of the Commission, to seek and make application for any and all State and/or Federal funds that are or become available for a municipality to fund arson prevention activities. The Commission shall monitor compliance with Chapter 446 of the Acts of 1978 and any other applicable State statute which affect arson prevention in the City of Boston, shall advise and suggest administrative and legislative remedies to deal with the prevention of arson and shall establish a community based arson prevention program.(Ord. 1983 c.13; Ord. 1984 c. 6)	9-10.3	Other City Agencies.	The services of all City Departments, Agencies and other Commissions shall be made available to the Commission for the purposes of effectuating the 
provisions of this ordinance. The Head of any Department, Agency or other Commission shall furnish information in the possession of such Department, Agency, or other Commission when the Commission so requests and where such information relates to the duties of the Commission.(Ord. 1983 c. 13)	9-10.4	Rules and Regulations.	The Commission shall promulgate such rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this ordinance and the laws of the commonwealth as shall further the provisions of this ordinance. The Commission shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting hearings.(Ord. 1983 c. 13; Ord. 1984 c. 6)	9-10.5	Severability.	The provisions of this ordinance are severable and if any provision shall be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions of this ordinance, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 1983 c. 13)9-11	SECURITY IN ELDERLY/HANDICAPPED HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.	9-11.1	Definitions.	For the purpose of subsection 9-11.2 through 9-11.6, the following definitions shall apply:	Building entrance shall mean an entrance providing access from outside the building or from an entry vestibule to an interior corridor, lobby, or stairway which leads to an individual dwelling unit.	Building permit shall mean a permit granted by the Inspectional Services Department for the construction of any building or for any substantial alteration or addition thereto, as defined in Section 1 of Chapter 143 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
	914
9-11	BUILDING REGULATION	9-11
	Dwelling unit shall mean the part of a building that is used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons who maintain a household.	Elderly person shall mean any person who is at least sixty-two (62) years of age.	Handicapped person shall mean any person who is physically handicapped as defined in Section 13A of Chapter 22 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or mentally handicapped as defined by 29 U.S.C. Section 706(7)(b).	Elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development shall mean any building, structure, development, or complex of ten (10) or more dwelling units under common ownership, rented or offered for rent for dwelling purposes within the City of Boston, which is specifically designed or designated for rental by elderly or handicapped persons.	Landlord shall mean the individual who holds title to any elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development including, without limitation, a partnership, corporation, or trust. For purposes of this section, the rights and duties of the landlord hereunder shall be the obligation of anyone who manages, controls, or customarily accepts rent on behalf of the landlord.	Safety officer shall mean a police officer of the City of Boston, or a special police officer appointed pursuant to applicable law to protect persons or property in public or subsidized housing, or a person employed as a guard or investigator by a duly licensed watch, guard, or patrol agency, as defined in Section 22 of Chapter 147 of the General Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.	Security plan shall mean a plan for providing security for the tenants of an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development, based upon a crime prevention survey, which meets the criteria set forth in subsection 9-11.3 and which has been developed according to the process set forth in subsection 9-11.4.	Tenant shall mean a tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or other person, entitled under the terms of a rental housing agreement to the use and occupancy 
of any dwelling unit in an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [500])	9-11.2	Security Requirements for Elderly/Handicapped Multi-Family Housing Developments.	The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall promulgate regulations, pursuant to his authority under Section 127A of Chapter 111 of the General Laws, and consistent with the requirements of the State Sanitary Code and this section. These regulations shall take effect within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this section, and shall require that every landlord of an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development, within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice from the Commissioner, either elect to	a.	Provide safety officers for such development on a twenty-four (24) hour per day, seven (7) day per week basis. The safety officers’ duties shall include, without limitation, the monitoring of all building entrances in such elderly/handicapped development; or	b.	Provide security measures as identified in a security plan which has been developed and approved in compliance with the provisions of subsections 9-11.3 and 9-11.4.	Thereafter, once a landlord has elected to either provide safety officers as provided above or to provide a security plan, the landlord shall have the continuing duty to provide such officers or to provide the security measures identified in the security plan. A landlord may choose, after initially electing one of the above alternatives, to switch to the other with approval of the Inspectional Services Department, but must continue to provide safety officers or the security measures mandated by the security plan pending such approval. The landlord’s submission seeking approval for a switch in alternatives must be carried out in accordance with subsections 9-11.3 and 9-11.4. Failure to continue to provide safety officers or the security measures mandated by a security plan shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be subject to enforcement under subsection 9-11.6.
	915
9-11	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-11
	The Commissioner shall, within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this section, identify all elderly/handicapped developments within its scope. In identifying these developments, the Commissioner shall consult with the Commissioner for the Elderly. Thereafter, the Commissioner shall notify all landlords of elderly/handicapped developments of the operation of this section, and of their duty to elect to either provide safety officers on a 24-hour basis, or to request a crime prevention survey. Such notices shall be sent out on a phased basis so that, within a twelve-month period, all elderly/handicapped developments within the City of Boston shall have received such notices. Copies of this section and the Commissioner’s regulations shall be provided at no cost whenever an applicant seeks a building permit for an elderly/handicapped housing development covered by this section.	If, within thirty (30) days after receipt of a notice under this subsection or a notice of non-compliance under subsection 9-1.6 for failure to provide security officers or have an approved security plan, a landlord has requested a crime prevention survey by the Boston Police Department, triggering the first stage in the provision of a security plan, the landlord shall be relieved of the responsibility of providing safety officers as required above unless and until a security plan has been approved.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [501])Editor’s Note:	This section was adopted by Ordinances of	  1989, Chapter 4, on February 8, 1989, and	  approved by the Mayor on February 27, 1989.	9-11.3	Criteria for a Security Plan.	A security plan shall be based upon a crime prevention survey which has been completed by the Boston Police Department, and shall incorporate all of the elements recommended by the crime prevention survey for the adequate protection of the tenants of the elderly/handicapped development, except as otherwise provided in subsection 9-11.4. Each crime prevention survey shall include both findings as to the security needs of the tenants of the development and recommendations as to how such needs shall be met through existing or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, safety officers, security stations, security systems, or other equipment, personnel, or programs. Each survey shall also include a one-page 
summary, on official Police Department stationery, itemizing the elements recommended.	A new crime prevention survey must be performed every three (3) years. If a building permit is required by the Inspectional Services Department for substantial structural changes in the building entrances to an elderly/handicapped development before the expiration of the three-year period since a survey was last performed, a new crime prevention survey must be performed upon submission of the building permit application.	The landlord shall be responsible for arranging for a crime prevention survey by the Boston Police Department, and shall notify the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department in writing at the same time that he requests such survey from the Boston Police Department. No fee shall be assessed to the landlord for such survey. The Boston Police Department shall carry out such crime prevention survey and provide a copy of the same to the landlord and the Inspectional Services Department upon completion, as provided for in subsection 11-1.7 of The City of Boston Code as amended. Such surveys shall be carried out on a phased basis parallel to that of the notices sent under subsection 9-11.2 by the Commissioner of Inspectional Services. Such surveys shall be completed within thirty (30) days of receipt of the landlord’s request for a crime prevention survey.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [502])	9-11.4	Process for Approval of a Security Plan.	a.	Approval of Security Plan Incorporating Security Measures Recommended by Crime Prevention Survey. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the crime prevention survey, the landlord shall prepare a security plan for approval by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department. Such plan shall be deemed to be in full compliance with this section provided that: (1) the security plan mandates, at the very least, the provision of the security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey; and (2) the tenants have not articulated security needs which are not adequately addressed by the survey or the plan. If the crime prevention survey indicates that no security measures are needed additional to those already in effect at the development, the security plan shall be deemed to be sufficient so long as the 
	916
9-11	BUILDING REGULATION	9-11
landlord, in such plan, agrees to keep in effect all existing security measures. In all cases, the tenants must be given the opportunity to present their views to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a hearing before the plan is accepted.	Following the posting of notice to tenants as provided in paragraph c below, the landlord shall submit the plan to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department for approval. The Commissioner shall notify all affected parties of the date of the hearing on the plan. Such hearing shall take place within thirty (30) days of the Commissioner’s receipt of the plan, and notice of the hearing date shall be given to all parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the hearing date. Notice of the hearing date shall be given to any tenants organization which exists in the development and shall be posted by the landlord at the development in a conspicuous location. At the hearing, the landlord and the tenants shall be given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses, or to submit documentary evidence, as to why the security plan should be approved or modified.	Following the hearing, the Commissioner shall approve or modify the security plan, consistent with the recommendations of the crime prevention survey and the security needs articulated by tenants. In reviewing the adequacy of the plan and reaching a decision thereon, the Commissioner shall consult with the Boston Police Department, as provided for in subsection 11-1.7 of the City of Boston Code, as amended. The Commissioner’s approval or modification shall be in the form of a written decision, and shall be furnished to all affected parties within ten (10) days of the hearing date.	b.	Petition for a Modified Security Plan; Approval Process. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the crime prevention survey, if the landlord of an elderly/handicapped multi-family development disputes the need for any of the specific security measures recommended by the crime prevention survey, or the method or the timetable for carrying out security measures, based on the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to the particular development, or if the landlord and/or tenants of an elderly/handicapped multi-family development believes that the additional security measures mandated by the crime prevention survey are such as 
to be cost-prohibitive, given the economic circumstances of the tenants of the development and the inability of the landlord and/or the tenants to obtain sufficient funding, equipment, or services to cover the costs of such additional measures despite best efforts, as provided for in subsection 9-11.5, then the landlord and/or tenants can petition the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department for permission to submit a modified security plan which does not encompass all of the security measures mandated by the crime prevention survey. Such petition shall be accompanied by a proposed security plan. A landlord may only claim that the elements mandated by the crime prevention survey are cost-prohibitive if the increased costs must be passed along to the tenants of the development and absorbed by the tenants in the tenants’ share of the rent. In all cases under this subsection, the tenants must be given the opportunity to present their views to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a hearing before the petition and plan is accepted.	Following the posting of notice as provided in paragraph c., below, the landlord shall submit the petition for a modified security plan to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department for approval. The Commissioner shall notify all affected parties of the date of the hearing on the petition. Such hearing shall take place within thirty (30) days of the Commissioner’s receipt of the petition, and notice of the hearing date shall be given to all parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the hearing date. Notice of the hearing date shall be given to any tenants organization which exists in the development and shall be posted by the landlord at the development in a conspicuous location. At the hearing, the landlord and the tenants shall be given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses, or to submit documentary evidence, as to why the petition should be approved or modified.	If a landlord submits a petition for a modified security plan, the landlord shall have the burden to show how any of the specific security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey are unnecessary, or, given the fiscal or contracting constraints particular to the development, how changes are needed in the method or timetable for implementation of security measures. In the event that a party claims that the costs of the additional security measures are cost-prohibitive, the landlord shall state 
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	917
9-11	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-11
what the estimated costs of the security measures are. In such cases, the landlord shall also substantiate his/her current and projected operating expenses and revenues, and shall show what efforts s/he has made to otherwise cover the costs, as provided in subsection 9-11.5.	Following the hearing, if the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department finds that:	i.	Any of the specific security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey are unnecessary to meet security needs at the particular development;	ii.	Within the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to the particular development, the landlord’s proposed plan will provide a reasonable method or timetable for meeting security needs; or	iii.	The costs required to undertake the improvements mandated by the crime prevention survey as such as to make a security plan cost-prohibitive, the Commissioner shall either approve the petition for a modified security plan or make such modifications to the plan as are necessary.	In ruling on a petition where it is claimed that a security plan is cost-prohibitive, the Commissioner shall be guided by the principle, consistent with the security objectives articulated in the crime prevention survey, that the impact on tenants’ rents should be minimized so that the cost of additional security measures will not have the likely effect of displacing elderly/handicapped tenants due to the excessive rent increases. In such cases, the Commissioner shall consider reasonable alternatives to the security measures called for by the crime prevention survey.	In reviewing the adequacy of the plan and reaching a decision thereon, the Commissioner shall consult with the Boston Police Department, as provided for in subsection 11-1.7 of the City of Boston Code, as amended. Such approval or modification shall be in the form of a written decision, and shall be furnished to all affected parties within ten (10) days of the hearing date.
	c.	Tenant Participation Requirements In Conjunction with Submission of Security Plans. The landlord shall post a notice that s/he intends to submit a security plan or a petition for a modified security plan to the Inspectional Services Department in a conspicuous location within the development. This notice shall be in a form established by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department. Such notice shall inform the tenants of the development that they may review and obtain copies of the landlord’s security plan upon request, as well as the materials in support of the plan, and shall also notify them of their right to participate in hearings at the Inspectional Services Department concerning such plan. Such notice shall first be posted at least ten (10) days prior to the submission of the security plan or petition to the Inspectional Services Department under paragraph a. or b. above. Such notice shall remain posted until such time as the Inspectional Services Department has made its final determination. It shall be deemed a violation of this section, enforceable under subsection 9-11.6, for any landlord to fail to post such a notice in a conspicuous location or to intentionally or willfully cause such notice to be defaced, destroyed, or removed. If such a notice is defaced, destroyed, or removed by a third party, it shall be the landlord’s obligation to immediately post a copy of the original notice.	If any tenant requests a copy of the proposed plan, it shall be provided by the landlord to the tenant, together with:	i.	A copy of the findings and recommendations of the crime prevention survey (or the official Police Department summary);	ii.	If applicable, a summary of the landlord’s reasons for disputing the findings and recommendations of the crime prevention survey, for seeking alterations in the method or timetable for implementation of security measures, or for claiming that the additional security measures mandated by the crime prevention survey are cost-prohibitive, including a summary of the financial alternatives that s/he has explored to cover costs.	Such notice shall be required, and such documents shall be available upon request, even if the survey and the plan do not recommend additional security measures.
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10 	918
9-11	BUILDING REGULATION	9-11
	In developments that are subject to tenant participation requirements under 760 C.M.R. §6.00, 24 C.F.R. §245, or other applicable law and where there is a tenants organization, the landlord shall provide a copy of the security plan or petition and the above documents to such tenants organization at least ten (10) days in advance of the submission of the plan or petition to the Inspectional Services Department. If the tenants participating in the organization vote that there are deficiencies in the security plan or petition, the landlord shall be required to meet with the tenants organization, at the tenants organization’s request, to discuss the tenants’ concerns and attempt in good faith to resolve such concerns. The tenants organization shall give written notice to the landlord, within the ten (10) day period after receipt of the plan and survey, of its desire to have such a meeting. The landlord shall meet with the tenants organization within two (2) weeks of receipt of the tenant organization’s notice. To the extent that such meetings or discussions delay the finalization of the security plan, the landlord shall be permitted to submit the security plan late, but in no event later than thirty (30) days from the date of the tenant meeting. The landlord shall give notice to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department of any requests received for tenant meetings. The Commissioner shall not schedule any hearing on the security plan until after such tenant meetings have taken place, and the 30-day period for the Commissioner to hold a hearing after receipt of a plan shall be extended in such event. Failure of the tenants or the tenants organization to request a meeting with their landlord to discuss the plan shall not be deemed to constitute a waiver of the tenants’ right to approve, oppose, or seek modifications in a plan or petition at the hearing before the Commissioner.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [503]; Ord. 2010 c. 12)	9-11.5	Protection from Rent Increases.	Additional costs incurred by landlords in complying with the requirements of this section and implementing security measures additional to those already provided or required in such developments shall not be passed on to elderly or handicapped tenants of elderly/handicapped multi-family housing developments unless the landlord has exhausted all reasonable alternatives to the passing on of such costs. In pursuing such alternatives, the landlord of an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development shall use best efforts to seek and obtain 
such funding, grants, or donations of funds, equipment, or services, as may lessen or eliminate such additional costs. Such reasonable alternatives shall also include the seeking of relief from cost-prohibitive security measures as provided for under subsection 9-11.4b. The costs incurred in complying with the requirements of this section and implementing security measures additional to those already provided or required may be considered to be reasonable or necessary operating or capital expenses in any application for additional subsidy or financing from the United States, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, or any authority created under the laws thereof, as well as under Chapter 34 of the Ordinances of 1984, as amended.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [504])Editor’s Note:	Chapter 34 of the Ordinances of 1984 has been	  codified as subsections 10-2.1 through	  10-2.10 and 10-2.14 through 10-2.23.	9-11.6	Enforcement.	The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall notify the landlord of an elderly/handicapped multi-family housing development in the event the development is found to be in noncompliance with the provisions of this section and shall order compliance. Said landlord shall have thirty (30) days from the date of notification in which to achieve compliance with the Commissioner’s order. Upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the landlord of a housing development still in violation of the order shall be subject to a fine of one hundred fifty ($150.00) dollars. Each day’s failure to comply with the order thereafter shall constitute a separate violation of the Commissioner’s order. Orders shall be enforced in a manner similar to that provided for enforcement of orders under Article II of the State Sanitary Code. Tenants and/or tenant organizations of elderly/handicapped multi-family housing developments shall have the right to request investigation by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department if they believe that their landlords have failed to comply with the provisions of subsection 9-11.1 through subsection 9-11.5 and shall have the right to request a hearing from the Commissioner in a manner similar to that provided in G.L. c. 111 §127B if the Commissioner fails to respond to a request for investigation, if the Commissioner fails to make findings of non-compliance following an investigation, or if the 
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	919
9-11	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-12
Commissioner fails to issue orders upon a finding of non-compliance.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 1 [505])	9-11.7	Non-Liability of the City of Boston.	The provisions of this section shall not be construed to establish any duty on the part of the City of Boston greater than the City’s general public duty to protect its citizens’ health, safety, security, and well-being. No determination by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or the Boston Police Department as to the adequacy of a landlord’s security measures shall be construed as a warranty or guarantee of such security, and the sole responsibility for insuring that security measures are adequate to protect tenants from foreseeable harm or risk shall rest and remain with the owner of such property.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 3)	9-11.8	Severability.	The provisions of this section are severable and if any provision, or portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 § 4)9-12	SECURITY FOR STUDENT HOUSING.	9-12.1	Definitions.	For the purposes of subsection 9-12.1 through 9-12.5 hereafter, the following definitions shall apply:	Crime prevention survey shall mean a survey conducted by the Boston Police Department identifying the security needs of the occupants and neighbors of student housing and making recommendations as to how such needs shall be met through existing or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, safety officers, resident managers, security stations, security systems, or other equipment, personnel, or program. See also City of Boston Code, Section 11-1, as amended.
	Dwelling unit shall mean as defined in subsection 9-11.1.	Landlord shall mean the individual who holds title or control of any student housing including, without limitation, a partnership, corporation, condominium association, or trust. For purposes of this section, the rights and duties of the landlord hereunder shall be the obligation of anyone who manages, controls, or customarily accepts rent on behalf of the landlord.	Neighbors of student housing shall mean persons who reside or operate businesses within the same precinct as the student housing involved.	Occupants of student housing shall mean persons who rent or occupy buildings, structures, developments, or complexes which come within the definition of student housing, regardless of whether such persons are themselves students of undergraduate institutions.	Security plan shall mean a plan for providing security for the occupants and neighbors of student housing, based upon a crime prevention survey, which meets the criteria set forth in subsection 9-12.3 and which has been developed in accordance with the process set forth in subsection 9-12.4.	Student housing shall mean any building, structure, development or complex of one or more dwelling units under common ownership or control, rented or offered for rent for dwelling purposes within the City of Boston, which is rented to or occupied by persons who are students in undergraduate institutions, provided, however, one (1), two (2), and three (3) family properties which are occupied by all of the legal and beneficial owners of the property shall be exempt from this section; provided further, however, that in buildings, structures, developments or complexes consisting of less than twenty (20) dwelling units, fifty (50%) percent or more of such dwelling units must be rented to or occupied by persons who are students in undergraduate institutions, and that in buildings, structures, developments or complexes consisting of twenty (20) or more dwelling units, at least ten (10) of such dwelling units must be rented to or occupied by persons who are students in undergraduate institutions. Such student housing shall include dwelling units which are rented out to 
	920
9-12	BUILDING REGULATION	9-12
institutions, corporations, or persons, and in turn are then sublet to, or occupied by, students of undergraduate institutions. Such student housing shall not include housing which is located on the campus of a university or college or housing which is controlled by a university or college, so long as the university or college provides security for such housing to protect students, occupants, and neighbors of such housing. In determining whether property continues to be used as student housing, the Commissioner shall treat vacant units which were formerly rented to or occupied by students in undergraduate institutions as counting toward the unit threshold, unless the landlord establishes by clear and convincing evidence that it is no longer his intent to rent out such units to students of undergraduate institutions.(Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 1 [506])	9-12.2	Security Requirements for Student Housing Where There is Probable Cause to Believe That There Is A Risk to the Occupants or Neighbors of Such Housing.	The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall promulgate regulations, pursuant to his/her authority under Section 127A of Chapter 111 of the General Laws, and consistent with the requirements of the State Sanitary Code and subsections 9-12.1 through 9-12.5. These regulations shall take effect within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this section. Such regulations shall require the following:	a.	That a complaint process shall be established whereby occupants and neighbors of student housing may file a complaint and request for investigation with the Inspectional Services Department if there are breaches of the peace and quiet enjoyment of the public or the occupants of such student housing committed on or near such student housing premises. A neighbor or occupant of student housing may file a complaint upon obtaining the signatures and addresses of nine (9) other neighbors or occupants of the student housing premises. Such complaints shall be taken without regard to whether the premises do in fact come within the definition of student housing.	b.	That, within ten (10) days of receipt of a complaint under this section, the Inspectional Services Department shall investigate to determine: (i) whether 
the premises appear to meet the definition of student housing in terms of the number of units and the number of units occupied by students; and (ii) whether there is probable cause to believe that there is a risk to the safety, security, and quiet enjoyment of occupants or neighbors of student housing as the result of insufficient security measures taken with regard to such student housing. Such investigation shall be completed within ten (10) days of receipt of the complaint by the issuance of a notice determining whether there is or is not probable cause to proceed further. Such notice shall be sent to the landlord of the student housing and to the complaining party or parties and to the dean of student affairs of the undergraduate institution in which the students are enrolled. Complaining parties who have been notified that there is no probable cause to proceed further shall have the right to request a hearing from the Commissioner in a manner similar to that provided in G.L c. 111, § 127B to challenge the Commissioner’s failure to respond to a request for investigation or to challenge the Commissioner’s determination that there is no probable cause to proceed further.	c.	If the Commissioner determines that there is probable cause to proceed, the notice to the landlord shall state the following:		1.	The landlord may request a hearing to contest the finding of probable cause, which shall be conducted in a manner similar to that proceed in G.L. c. 111, § 127B.		2.	If the landlord does not request a hearing in a timely manner, the landlord must request a crime prevention survey to identify the steps that can be taken by the landlord to insure the safety, security and quiet enjoyment of occupants and neighbors of the student housing.	The notice shall also state that if the landlord fails to request a hearing within ten (10) days of the date of the Commissioner’s notice of probable cause, the landlord shall be deemed to have waived election of a hearing, and shall be ordered to request a crime prevention survey.	d.	If a landlord fails to request a hearing as provided in paragraph c. above, or if a hearing is requested and, following such hearing, it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that 
	921
9-12	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-12
there is probable cause to believe that there is a risk to the safety, security, and quiet enjoyment of occupants or neighbors of student housing as the result of insufficient security measures taken with regard to such student housing, the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall order the landlord to request a crime prevention survey within ten (10) days. If the landlord fails to make such a request, he shall be subject to a fine of one hundred fifty ($150.00) dollars. Each day’s failure to respond to the Commissioner’s order thereafter shall constitute a separate violation. The landlord shall also be subject to prosecution for failing to respond to the Commissioner’s order in the same manner as is provided for under Article II of the State Sanitary Code. Occupants and neighbors of the student housing shall also have a private right of action to seek enforcement of the landlord’s obligation to request a crime prevention survey.	e.	If the landlord requests a crime prevention survey and, following the survey, it is determined that a security plan is necessary, the landlord must provide the security measures identified in the security plan, as developed and approved in compliance with the provisions of subsections 9-12.3 and 9-12.4. After a security plan is adopted, the landlord shall have the continuing duty to provide the security measures identified in the security plan. Any request for modification in the security plan must be submitted to the Inspectional Services Department for prior review and approval. Failure to continue to provide the security measures mandated by a security plan shall constitute a violation of this section and be subject to enforcement under subsection 9-12.5.	f.	If, at any time following a finding of probable cause by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department, the landlord of student housing changes the way in which the property is rented out, such that it is the landlord’s position that the property no longer meets the definition of student housing, the landlord shall so notify the Commissioner in writing. The Commissioner shall investigate the landlord’s claim and shall give notice of the same and an opportunity to respond to the complaining parties. Such investigation shall be completed within ten (10) days of receipt of the landlord’s notice by the issuance of a notice determining whether the premises should continue to be treated as student housing subject to the provisions of this section. Such notice shall be sent to 
the landlord of the student housing and to the complaining party or parties. Parties aggrieved by the Commissioner’s determination shall have the right to request a hearing from the Commissioner in a manner similar to that provided in G.L. c. 111, § 127B.(Ord. 1992 c.1 § 1 [507])  Penalty, see subsection 9-12.5	9-12.3	Criteria for a Security Plan.	A security plan shall be based upon a crime prevention survey which has been completed by the Boston Police Department, and shall incorporate all of the elements recommended by the crime prevention survey for the adequate protection of the occupants and neighbors of the student housing, except as otherwise provided in subsection 9-12.4. Each crime prevention survey shall include both findings as to the security needs of the occupants and neighbors of the student housing and recommendations as to how such needs shall be met through existing or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, safety officers, resident managers, security stations, security systems, or other equipment, personnel, or programs. Each survey shall also include a one (1) page summary, on official Police Department stationery, itemizing the elements recommended.	The landlord shall be responsible for arranging for a crime prevention survey by the Boston Police Department, and shall notify the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department in writing at the same time that he requests such survey from the Boston Police Department. No fee shall be assessed to the landlord for such survey. The Boston Police Department shall carry out such crime prevention survey and provide a copy of the same to the landlord and the Inspectional Services Department upon completion, as provided for in Section 11-1 of the City of Boston Code, as amended. Such surveys shall be completed within thirty (30) days of receipt of the landlord’s request for a crime prevention survey.(Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 1 [508])  Penalty, see subsection 9-12.5	9-12.4	Process for Approval of a Security Plan.	a.	Approval of Security Plan Incorporating Security Measures Recommended by Crime Prevention Survey. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the 
	922
9-12	BUILDING REGULATION	9-12
crime prevention survey, the landlord shall prepare a security plan for approval by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department. Such plan shall be deemed to be in full compliance within this section provided that: (i) the security plan mandates, at the very least, the provision of the security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey; and (ii) the parties whose complaint triggered the probable cause finding have not articulated security needs which are not adequately addressed by the survey or the plan. If the crime prevention survey indicates that no security measures are needed additional to those already in effect at the student housing, the security plan shall be presumed to be sufficient so long as the landlord, in such plan, agrees to keep in effect all existing security measures; this presumption, however, may be rebutted by the complaining parties. In all cases, the complaining parties or their authorized representatives must be given the opportunity to present their views to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a hearing before the plan is accepted. The Commissioner shall insure that prior notice of such hearing, as well as a copy of the landlord’s security plan and the crime prevention survey, are provided to the complaining parties or their authorized representatives. Following the hearing, the Commissioner shall approve or modify the security plan, consistent with the recommendations of the crime prevention survey and the security needs articulated by the complaining parties. In reviewing the adequacy of the plan and reaching a decision thereon, the Commissioner shall consult with a certified crime prevention officer from the Boston Police Department, as provided for in Section 11-1 of the City of Boston Code, as amended. The Commissioner’s approval or modification shall be in the form of a written decision, and shall be furnished to all affected parties within ten (10) days of the hearing date.	b.	Petition for a Modified Security Plan: Approval Process. Within thirty (30) days ofreceipt of the crime prevention survey, if thelandlord of student housing disputes the needfor any of the specific security measures recommended by the crime prevention survey, or the method or the timetable for carrying out security measures, based on the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to the particular housing,then the landlord can petition the Commissionerof the Inspectional Services Department for permission to submit a modified security plan which does not encompass all of the security measures
mandated by the crime prevention survey. Such petition shall be accompanied by a proposed security plan. If a landlord submits a petition for a modified security plan, the landlord shall have the burden to show how any of the specific security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey are unnecessary, or, given the fiscal or contracting constraints particular to the development, how changes are needed in the method or timetable for implementation of security measures.	In all cases, the complaining parties or their authorized representatives must be given the opportunity to present their views to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department at a hearing before the petition and plan is accepted. The Commissioner shall insure that prior notice of such hearing, as well as a copy of the landlord’s security plan and the crime prevention survey, are provided to the complaining parties or their authorized representatives. Following the hearing, the Commissioner shall approve or modify the security plan, consistent with the recommendations of the crime prevention survey and the security needs articulated by the complaining parties.	Following the hearing, if the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department finds that:	1.	Any of the specific security measures recommended in the crime prevention survey are unnecessary to meet the security needs of occupants or neighbors of the student housing; or	2.	Within the fiscal or contracting constraints that apply to the particular development, the landlord’s proposed plan will provided a reasonable method or timetable for meeting security needs, the Commissioner shall either approve the petition for a modified security plan or make such modifications to the plan as are necessary.	In reviewing the adequacy of the plan and reaching a decision thereon, the Commissioner shall consult with a certified crime prevention officer from the Boston Police Department, as provided for in Section 11-1 of the City of Boston Code, as amended. The Commissioner’s approval or modification shall be in the form of a written decision, and shall be furnished to all affected parties within ten (10) days of the hearing date.(Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 1 [509])  Penalty, see subsection 9-12.5
	923
9-12	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	9-13
	9-12.5	Enforcement.	The Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall notify the landlord of student housing in the event the housing is found to be in noncompliance with the provisions of subsections 9-12.1 through 9-12.4, and shall order compliance. Except as otherwise provided in subsections 9-12.1 through 9-12.4, said landlord shall have thirty (30) days from the date of notification in which to achieve compliance with the Commissioner’s order. Upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the landlord of student housing still in violation of the order shall be subject to a fine of one hundred fifty ($150.00) dollars. Each day’s failure to comply with the order thereafter shall constitute a separate violation of the Commissioner’s order. Orders shall be enforced in a manner similar to that provided for enforcement of orders under Article II of the State Sanitary Code. Occupants and neighbors of student housing shall have the right to request investigation by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department in the manner provided in subsection 9-12.2 if they believe that a landlord of student housing has failed to comply with the provisions of subsections 9-12.1 through 9-12.4. Such persons shall have the right to request a hearing from the Commissioner in a manner similar to that provided in G.L. c. 111, § 127B if the Commissioner fails to respond to a request for investigation, if the Commissioner fails to make findings of noncompliance following an investigation, or if the Commissioner fails to issue orders upon a finding of noncompliance.(Ord. 1192 c. 1 § 1 [510])	9-12.6	Non-Liability of the City of Boston.	The provisions of this section shall not be construed to establish any duty on the part of the City of Boston greater than the City’s general public duty to protect its citizens’ health, safety, security and well-being. No determination by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or the Boston Police Department as to the adequacy of a landlord’s security measures shall be construed as a warranty or guarantee of such security, and the sole responsibility for insuring that security measures are adequate to protect occupants and neighbors from foreseeable harm or risk shall rest and remain with the owner of such property.(Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 3)
	9-12.7	Severability.	The provisions of this section are severable and if any provision, or portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions which remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 4)9-13	PROBLEM PROPERTIES TASK FORCE.	9-13.1	Establishing a Problem Properties			Task Force.	There is hereby established in the Mayor's Office an advisory panel to be known as the Problem Properties Task Force, the members of which shall meet and share information concerning various properties in the City of Boston as more fully outlined herein. The panel shall advise the Mayor or his designee of the actions taken by various City Departments and public agencies to address problems associated with such property and each member of the panel may use the information about such property in order to better enforce the laws, ordinances, codes or regulations that fall within such member's jurisdiction.	a.	The Task Force shall be chaired by a member of the Mayor's staff who shall have the full confidence of the Mayor, and shall be housed in a department of the Mayor's Office as the Mayor shall from time to time designate.	b.	Members of the Task Force shall be:		The Police Commissioner		The Fire Commissioner		The Commissioner of Inspectional Services	Director of the Office of Neighborhood		  Services		The Commissioner of Public Health		The Collector Treasurer	The Director of the Air Pollution Control Commission The Corporation Counsel	c.	The Task Force shall have regular monthly meetings in City Hall and may meet at other locations in the City. Emergency meetings shall be held at the call of the Chair.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	924
9-13	BUILDING REGULATION	9-13
	d.	Upon the effective date of this ordinance, each member of the Task Force shall make a diligent search of the records of his or her department and gather all records of multiple calls from the public concerning specific addresses in the last 12-month period. Such records shall be forwarded to the Chair who shall establish master files for each address forwarded containing all records concerning that address. Such files may be kept in electronic form. Notwithstanding the forgoing, the Police Commissioner shall not forward any record that is part of a criminal investigation.	e.	A problem property shall be defined as any property to which the Police Department has been called not fewer than four times within the preceding 12-month period for any incident involving any criminal offense including but not limited to disturbing the peace, trespassing, underage drinking or assault; or any property concerning which the Air Pollution Control Commission has received not fewer than four complaints for noise within the preceding 12-month period; or any property that the Inspectional Services Department or the Public Health Commission has received not fewer than four complaints within the preceding 12-month period for noxious, noisome or unsanitary conditions Provided, however, that the final designation of a property as a problem property shall be made by the Chair taking into consideration the nature of the complaints, the number of dwelling units at the property, and the nature of the property.	f.	Upon review of each file, the members of the Task Force may determine that a particular property warrants heightened scrutiny by the agency or agencies that they head.		i.	In the case of properties in or around which recurring criminal activity has occurred in the preceding 12 months, the Boston Police Commissioner shall consider whether to increase surveillance of said property and all other enforcement actions permitted by law.		ii.	In the case of properties which have had multiple building and/or sanitary code violations in the preceding 12 months, the Inspectional Services Commissioner and the Executive Director of the Public Health Commission shall, as appropriate, consider whether to expedite code enforcement proceedings and all other enforcement actions permitted by law.
		iii.	In the case of properties which have had recurring violations of noise regulations in the preceding 12 months, the Executive Director of the Air Pollution Control Commission shall coordinate with the Law Department to institute proceedings for injunctive relief.		iv.	Properties described in this paragraph shall be designated as "problem properties".	g.	The Chair of the Task Force shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by ordinance, including notifying a property owner of the designation of his or her property as a problem property, and notifying a property owner of the intention to impose charges to recover the cost of public safety expenses related to that property.	h.	The Corporation Counsel shall commence foreclosure proceedings for any such property described above in paragraph f. which has delinquent real estate taxes.	i.	The Chair of the Task Force shall issue a written report to the Mayor and City Council on the actions undertaken by the agencies represented by its members on problem properties for the period of the enactment of this ordinance to the second anniversary of its enactment. The report shall be delivered not later than three months after the second anniversary of the enactment of this ordinance.(Ord. 2011 c. 12)	
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	925
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES		926