	CHAPTER XI	PUBLIC SERVICES
11-1	POLICE DEPARTMENT.	11-1.1	Weekly Report by Police Commissioner.	The Police Commissioner shall prepare and furnish, each week to the City Council, a report on the number of crimes reported in the City during the previous week in the following categories: shooting incidents and homicides involving minors, meaning anyone age seventeen (17) or under, as victims and/or perpetrators categorized by age, gender, race, ethnicity, and national origin, and specifying whether the minor involved was the victim and/or perpetrator, viz, murder, rape, assault, armed robbery, breaking and entering of homes, and purse-snatching, tabulated by police district and providing, in addition to the district number, the geographical area of the City comprising the district, and within each district tabulated according to the several tours of duty. However, the reporting of shooting incidents and homicides involving minors may be contingent on whether a formal arrest occurs. The Police Commissioner shall, in preparing each report, also include cumulative reported totals of the crimes enumerated above, tabulated as aforesaid, for the year to date of making the report.	The Police Commissioner shall also prepare and furnish each week to the Mayor and to the City Council a report on the deployment of sworn police officers to each district by shift. This report shall include the use of overtime, leave taken by officers, and officers assigned to each district but assigned out to other districts.(Ord. 1973 c. 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 1; Ord. 1988 c. 14; Ord. 2009 c. 5)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.32; Ord. ss 17-4.5, ss 17-4.6	11-1.2	Shotguns in Police Vehicles; Training of Officers.	All Boston police vehicles shall be equipped with shotguns and shotgun racks. All Boston Police

Officers shall participate in a training course for the handling and operation of shotguns. All Boston Police Officers shall be awarded a certificate of training from the appropriate police officials at the completion of such training.(Ord. 1974 c. 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 2)Editor’s Note:	This ordinance was declared invalid in 	  O’Neil v. White, Suffolk Superior Court 	  No. 683216  (1974).	11-1.3	Minimum Number of Marked Police Vehicles Required.	At all times in the various police districts of the City there shall be in use on duty no less than fifty (50%) percent plus one of all the marked police vehicles which were assigned to such districts on June 15, 1971.(Ord. 1973 c. 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 3)	11-1.4	Police Vehicles to Be Manned Full-Time.	All Boston police vehicles, marked or unmarked, shall be manned twenty-four (24) hours a day by two (2) Boston Police Officers.(Ord. 1973 c. 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 4)	11-1.5	Minimum Salaries for Patrolmen.	Effective as of January 1, 1972, the minimum annual compensation of patrolman members of the Police Department of the City, in the classifications and salary grades as herein set forth, shall be not less than the following:	For the first year of service, ten thousand five hundred ($10,500.00) dollars.	For the second year of service, eleven thousand five hundred ($11,500.00) dollars.Rev. 3/5/10 Supp. 9	1101
11-1	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-1
	For the third and each succeeding year of service, twelve thousand five hundred ($12,500.00) dollars.	“Service,” under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to commence with the date the appointee patrolman is first assigned to duty and continue until death, retirement, or termination of employment of the appointee. In determining years of service, credit shall be given for all time or period of service to December 31, 1971. All step increments in higher salary grade shall become due at intervals of a year’s service at the beginning of the second and third years of service and shall commence on the Sunday preceding the day on which such step increments shall become due.(Ord. 1972 c. 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 5)	11-1.6	Minimum Number of Police Officers on the Boston Police Department.	On or before July 1, 1979, the size of the Boston Police Department shall be increased by the employment of a sufficient number of patrolmen so as to bring the force to strength of not less than two thousand three hundred (2,300) Police Officers. On or before July 1, 1980, the size of the Boston Police Department shall be increased by the employment of a sufficient number of patrolmen so as to bring the force to strength of not less than two thousand five hundred (2,500). Thereafter, additional officers shall be hired from time to time as needed so as to insure that the number of Police Officers on the force shall, at no time, be less than two thousand five hundred (2,500).(Ord. 1979 c. 2)	11-1.7	Crime Prevention Surveys.	a.	Procedure. The Police Commissioner shall designate such personnel as he finds appropriate to undertake crime prevention surveys for elderly/handicapped multi-family housing developments and student housing, as provided for in Sections 9-11 and 9-12 of the City of Boston Code, as amended. Such personnel shall be certified as crime prevention officers by the Criminal Justice Training Council or any future body providing similar certification. Surveys for elderly/handicapped 
developments shall be carried out on a phased basis parallel to that of the notices sent under subsection 9-11.2 by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department; surveys for student housing shall be carried out upon receipt of a request from the landlord of student housing. Such surveys shall be completed within thirty (30) days of receipt of the landlord’s request for a crime prevention survey.	Each crime prevention survey shall be on a form which is jointly developed by the Police Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department. Each completed survey shall include findings as to the security needs of the tenants/occupants of the housing and neighbors of such housing and recommendations as to how such needs shall be met through existing or new security measures, such as lighting, locks, safety officers, resident managers, security stations, security systems, or other equipment, personnel, or programs. Each survey shall also include a one-page summary, on official Police Department stationery, itemizing the elements recommended.	No fee shall be assessed to the landlord by the Police Commissioner for conducting the crime prevention survey, but such survey shall be carried out as public service to the residents of the City of Boston. Upon completion of each crime prevention survey, the Police Commissioner shall insure that a copy of the same is provided to the landlord and to the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department within thirty (30) days of receipt of the landlord’s written request.	The Police Commissioner shall designate personnel to assist the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department in the assessment of the adequacy of security plans, as provided for in subsection 9-11.4 and 9-12.3 of the City of Boston Code, as amended.	b.	Non-liability of the City of Boston. The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to establish any duty on the part of the City of Boston greater than the City’s general public duty to protect its citizens’ health, safety, security, and well-being. No determination by the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department or the Boston Police Department as to the adequacy of a landlord’s security measures shall be construed as a warranty or 
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1102
11-1	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-2
guarantee of such security, and the sole responsibility for insuring that security measures are adequate to protect occupants and neighbors from foreseeable harm or risk shall rest and remain with the owner of such property.	c.	Severability. The provisions of this subsection are severable and if any provision, or portion thereof, should be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 1989 c. 4 §§ 2-4; Ord. 1992 c. 1 § 2-4; Ord. 2010 c. 12)	11-1.8	Civilian Fingerprinting and Criminal History Records Checks for Certain Licenses.	a.	Pursuant to the authority granted in the Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 6, Section 172B½, the City of Boston Police Department shall establish, by rule or regulation, a civilian fingerprinting system for the purpose of conducting state and national criminal history records checks of persons applying for certain licensures within the City of Boston. Any person applying for a license for the following activities within the City of Boston is required to submit with the application a full set of fingerprints taken by the Boston Police Department within six months prior to the date of application:		1.	Hawking and Peddling (CBC 16-2);		2.	Operation of a Taxicab or other private vehicle for hire (CBC 16-15.5);		3.	Operation of a Sight Seeing Vehicle (St. 1931, Chapter 399);		4.	Operating as a Commercial Bicycle Messenger (St. 1998, Chapter 302);		5.	Pawning (M.G.L. ch. 140, s. 70) or collecting of or dealing in and as a keeper of shop for the purchase, sale, or barter of junk, old metals, or second-hand articles (CBC 17-4.1); and		6.	Appointment as Special Police Officer (St. 1898, Chapter 282).		7.	Appointment as a City of Boston Constable (CBC 2-7.2).
	b.	The Boston Police Department will transmit the fingerprints to the State Police Identification Unit through the Criminal History Systems Board (CHSB), or its successor, for a state criminal records check and for a national criminal records check by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The results of a criminal records check shall be communicated to the licensing authority for the sole purpose of evaluating the fitness of the person applying for the license.	c.	The Boston Police Department shall render a fitness determination based upon the results of the records checks and communicate its fitness determination to the licensing authority. In rendering a fitness determination, the Police Department shall indicate whether the license applicant has been convicted of, or is under pending indictment for, a crime which bears upon his or her ability or fitness to serve in the capacity of the license and any felony or misdemeanor which involved force or threat of force, controlled substances, or was a sex-related offense.	d.	A person applying for a license and who is required to submit a full set of fingerprints to the licensing authority, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, may request and receive a copy of his criminal history records from the Boston Police Department. Should the license applicant seek to amend or correct his record, he must contact the CHSB, or its successor, for a state record or the FBI for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.	e.	The fee charged to the applicant by the Boston Police Department for the purpose of enforcing this section shall be fifty ($50.00) dollars for each application. A portion of the fee, as specified in M.G.L. ch. 6, § 172B½, shall be deposited into the Firearms Fingerprint Identity Verification Trust Fund, and the remainder of the fee may be retained by the Boston Police Department for costs associated with the administration of the fingerprinting system.(Ord. 2011 c. 2)11-2	SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS.Editor’s Note:	Prior ordinances codified herein include	  portions of Ordinance No. 1982 c. 11.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1103
11-2	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-2
	11-2.1	Definitions.	When used in this section, unless contrary intention clearly appears, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:	Central station operating company shall mean a company equipped to receive a security alarm signal from each of its customers and which then transmits to the Boston Police Department (BPD) the location of any such alarm the central station operating company receives.	Commissioner shall mean the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department or his designee.	False alarm shall mean the transmittal of a signal to the Boston Police Department, whether because of human or mechanical error, and whether through a central station operating company or directly, even though there is no person entering or attempting to enter, without authorization, in or on real property protected by a security alarm system.	Security alarm system shall mean an electronic or mechanical device used to warn of a person entering or attempting to enter, without authorization, in or on real property.	Security alarm user shall mean a person, company, corporation or other entity utilizing a security alarm system to protect his or its real property located in the City of Boston.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.2	Alarm Information List.	The Commissioner shall create and maintain a list known as the Alarm Information List. Each central station operating company shall, as set forth herein, provide the information for said list to the Commissioner as to all of its customers who have a security alarm system. A security alarm user, if his or its security alarm system is not connected to a central station operating company, shall provide the information for said list to the Commissioner as to said user.	a.	The Alarm Information List shall consist of the following information from a central station operating company:
		1.	The name, address and telephone numbers of the central station operating company;		2.	The location of the premises where each such customer’s security alarm system is located;		3.	The name, address, and home and work telephone numbers of each such customer;		4.	The names, addresses, and home and work telephone numbers of at least two (2) persons who can be contacted twenty-four (24) hours a day who are authorized by the central station operating company or the customer to respond to a security alarm signal and who have access to the premises from where the security alarm signal is emitting; and		5.	Such other information as the Commissioner may require.	b.	The Alarm Information List shall consist of the following information as to a security alarm user whose security alarm system is not connected to a central station operating company:		1.	The location of the premises where the security alarm system is located;		2.	The name, address, and home and work telephone numbers of the security alarm user;		3.	The names, addresses, and home and work telephone numbers of at least two (2) persons who can be contacted twenty-four (24) hours a day who are authorized by the security alarm user to respond to a security alarm signal and who have access to the premises from where the security alarm signal is emitting; and		4.	Such other information as the Commissioner may require.	The Commissioner may at any time send a notice of the requirements of this section to a central station operating company or to a security alarm user. A central station operating company shall comply with the requirements of this subsection within sixty (60) days after the Commissioner has sent it such notice. Similarly, a security alarm user whose security alarm system is not connected to a central station operating company shall comply with the requirements of this
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1104
11-2	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-2
subsection within sixty (60) days after the Commissioner has sent him or it such notice. If such a central station operating company or security alarm user fails to comply with this subsection, the Commissioner may assess a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars for each day of noncompliance.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.3	Updating Information.	Every central station operating company and every security alarm user whose security alarm system is not connected to a central station operating company shall be responsible for updating the information herein required to be provided to the Commissioner. If the information provided changes, said central station operating company or security alarm user shall provide the Commissioner with the updated information. If such a central station operating company or security alarm user fails to comply with this subsection, the Commissioner may assess a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.4	False Alarm Assessment Schedule.	Any security alarm user whose security alarm system transmits to the Boston Police Department  more than two (2) false alarms in a calendar year, whether through a central station operating company or directly, shall be assessed a fine pursuant to G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 for the third and any subsequent false alarm according to the following schedule:	a.	Third false alarm: 	$  50.00	b.	Fourth false alarm: 	$100.00	c.	Fifth false alarm: 	$200.00	For the sixth and any subsequent false alarm, the fine shall be two hundred ($200.00) dollars per violation, each day after any such false alarm to be considered a new violation. A security alarm user shall be assessed said two hundred ($200.00) dollars per day until he can demonstrate to the Commissioner that the causes of the false alarms have been remedied.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
	11-2.5	Municipal Charges Lien.	If a fine assessed for a false alarm pursuant to subsection 11-2.4 hereof has not been paid by the due date, the Commissioner shall impose a lien on the real property where such false alarm occurred pursuant to the provisions of G.L. Chapter 40, Section 58 and shall notify the security alarm user in writing of such lien. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to fines that remain unpaid or that become due and payable on or after the effective date of this section. (Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.6	Restrictions on Tape Dialers and Automatic Telephone Devices.	Ninety (90) days after the passage of this section, no security alarm system shall be equipped with a tape dialer or similar automatic telephone device which will transmit an alarm signal to the 911 emergency system or any telephone lines of the Boston Police Department. If a security alarm user fails to comply with this subsection, the Commissioner may assess a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1104.1
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES		1104.211-2	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-3
	11-2.7	Testing Equipment.	All security alarm users must notify the Commissioner in advance of any testing of equipment. Failure to notify the Commissioner in advance of a testing of equipment shall constitute a false alarm and be subject to the assessment schedule contained herein in subsection 11-2.5.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.8	Audible Bell or Horn.	All security alarm systems which use an audible bell or horn shall be equipped with an automatic shut-off device which will deactivate the security alarm system within ten (10) minutes of its sounding. All security alarm users with an audible bell or horn shall install and maintain such automatic shut-off device within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this section if not already so equipped.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.9	Appeal Procedures.	Every central station operating company or security alarm user who is aggrieved by an action taken by the Commissioner under this section may file an appeal to a panel composed of the Commissioner, the Boston Public Works Commissioner, and the Boston Transportation Commissioner, or their designees. Such appeal must be in writing and must be received by the Commissioner within ten (10) days after the aggrieved person has been sent notice of such action. After notice to such owner, the panel shall hold a hearing, after which it shall issue a decision in which it affirms, annuls or modifies the action taken by the Commissioner, giving its reasons therefor. The Commissioner shall send his decision to the aggrieved person within ten (10) days after the hearing. The decision of the panel shall be a final administrative decision. The aggrieved person shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the written decision to seek judicial review in a court of competent jurisdiction.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.10	Regulations and Enforcement.	The Commissioner may promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to implement this section.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)
	11-2.11	Deposit in the General Fund.	All fines assessed herein shall be payable to the City of Boston for deposit in the General Fund.(Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)	11-2.12	Severability.	The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions. (Ord. 1992 c. 11 § 1)11-3	NEIGHBORHOOD AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT.	11-3.1	Department, Commissioner, Term.	There shall be in the City a Department known as the Neighborhood and Human Services Department (hereinafter called the Department) which shall be under the charge of an Officer known as the Commissioner of Neighborhood and Human Services (hereafter called the Commissioner) who shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial election at which a Mayor is elected.(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6)	11-3.2	Duties of Commissioner.	The Commissioner shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the Department, and the agencies included within the Department, and shall receive such salary as may be fixed from time to time by ordinance. The Commissioner may, in accordance with applicable law, and within the limits of the funds appropriated therefor, appoint and remove such subordinates as the work of the Department may require and may make such expenditure, within the limits of the funds appropriated therefor, as may be necessary to execute effectively the purposes of the Department and the agencies included within the Department.(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6)
	1105
11-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-3
	11-3.3	Purpose of the Department.	It shall be the purpose of the Department to administer the agencies included within it and to conduct continuing observation, study, an evaluation of such agencies with a view to making specific annual recommendations to the Mayor and City Council as to whether such agencies are meeting the needs of the people within the City neighborhoods, and as to any changes in the number of organizations of such agencies so as to better serve the people of such neighborhoods.(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6)	11-3.4	Agencies Within the Department.	Any agency, purporting to exist as a City agency on July 1, 1978, which was funded by a Council appropriation order as a City agency separate and apart from the Mayor’s Office, even though such agency might bear the words “Mayor’s Office of” in its title, except the Office of Fiscal Affairs, which is hereby created and placed within and made a part of the Administrative Services Department, and the Office of Property Equalization, which is hereby created and placed in and made a part of the Assessing Department, and except the so called “Mayor’s Office of Communications,” which is hereby abolished, which is funded to an extent of less than fifty (50%) percent of funds received by the City from the United States of America, which was not created by law or ordinance, and which continues to exist on the date on which this ordinance is in force, is hereby created and shall be on the date on which this ordinance is in force, is hereby created and shall be in and subject to the administrative control of the Department. All such agencies in the future shall not bear the words “Mayor’s Office of” in their title.(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6)	11-3.5	Agencies Not Created by Law or Ordinance Abolished.	Any agency, purporting to be an agency of the City, which was not expressly created by law or ordinance, and which is not in this Department or in the Department of Federally Funded Agencies (as created by CBC 1975 Ord. 5 § 2), when this ordinance is in force, shall be and hereby is abolished.(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6)
	11-3.6	Annual Report.	On or before October 1, 1980, and on or before October 1 of each succeeding year, the Department shall report in writing to the Mayor and City Council. Such reports shall include, but not be limited to, a report on all agencies within the Department, setting forth, in narrative style, their activities for the previous fiscal year, the goals for the succeeding year, which of its goals, as contained in its previous annual report were achieved, and which were not, and the reasons for any failures. The report shall also contain the number of employees, their salaries, job title, and names, as well as any other information that might be of relevance in judging the costs and benefits of the Department to the taxpayer.(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6)	11-3.7	Subordinate Positions.	If for any reason any appointment to a position with the Department, excepting that of Commissioner, is not made in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 31 of the General Laws, it shall be the responsibility of the Department to forthwith establish and promulgate, subject to approval of the City Council, rules and regulations which shall:	a.	Insure that for all appointments to positions within the Department made after June 30, 1978, every responsible effort shall be made to guarantee any resident of the City, who is qualified for any such position, timely notice that such position is available, reasonable opportunity to apply for such position and equal opportunity with all qualified applicants for appointment. All positions established and all appointments to positions in agencies within the Department, excepting that of Commissioner, made after June 30, 1978, are hereby abolished and cancelled as of July 1, 1979, and if reestablished and new appointments made, such appointments shall be made in accordance with this section.	b.	Insure that all employees have equal opportunity for promotion, pay increases or other job related benefits based on their work performance as such employees.	c.	Insure that any employee is protected in his or her employment against any inequitable threat of 
	1106
11-3	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-4
demotion, loss of pay, job termination, or other unfair labor or discriminatory practice.	d.	Insure that any employee is given an opportunity to join a collective bargaining unit, if he or she so chooses, without interference from any official or employee of the City.	In addition, it shall also be the responsibility of the Department to forthwith establish and promulgate, subject to approval of the City Council, job descriptions for all positions within Department which are not filled in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 31 of the General Laws.(Ord. 1979 c. 22; Ord. 1980 c. 6)	11-3.8	Creating the Office of Public Service.	a.	Creation of Department of Social Services. There is hereby created within the Department of Neighborhood Services (hereinafter “NHS”) an office to be known as the Office of Public Service (hereinafter “OPS”) which shall be under the charge of an officer, known as the Director, appointed by the Commissioner of NHS who shall have the powers and perform the duties imposed upon him by law, and who shall receive an annual salary not to exceed twenty-nine thousand ($29,000.00) dollars.	b.	Duties of Director. The Director may, subject to appropriations, from time to time, establish within the office such divisions as may be necessary for the efficient and economical administration of the office, and when necessary for such purpose, he may abolish any such division, or he may merge any two (2) or more of them, and may abolish or merge any such other administrative units within divisions as he may deem advisable. The Director shall prepare and keep current a statement of the organization of the office, of the assignment of functions to its various administrative units, and employees, and of the places at which and the methods whereby the public may receive information or make requests.	c.	Duties and Responsibilities of the Office of Public Services. The Office of Public Service shall:		1.	Formulate, coordinate and implement municipal policies with respect to neighborhood service delivery;
		2.	Respond at the local level to complaints about the provisions of services;		3.	Improve the delivery of services through close cooperation with line department personnel and through recommendations for departmental change;		4.	Act as the advocate for increased citizen involvement in the affairs of the municipal government; and		5.	Provide needed direct services and information to the public in the most convenient and accessible manner possible.(Ord. 1980 c. 9)11-4	FIRE DEPARTMENT.	11-4.1	Fire Commissioner; Appointments.	The Fire Department shall be under the charge of the Fire Commissioner, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by statute; and shall appoint a Chief of Department, Assistant Chiefs, Deputy Chiefs, District Chiefs, and other officers and firefighters.(St. 1895 c. 449 §§ 9-11; St. 1914 c. 795; Ord. 1946 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 75)	11-4.2	Emergency Authority.	In case of a conflagration or extreme emergency involving a fire hazard, the Officer or Board having charge of the fire fighting force shall have full authority to summon and keep on duty any or all of the members of the fire fighting force while such conflagration or emergency continues.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 76)	11-4.3	Assistance to Other Cities and Towns.	The Commissioner may furnish, on such occasions and under such conditions as he may determine, the assistance of the Department to another City, Town, or Fire District, in extinguishing fire therein, or rendering any other emergency aid or performing any detail. Agreements to provide such 
	1107
11-4	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-4
assistance shall be reduced to writing and executed by the Commissioner on behalf of the City in form approved by the Corporation Counsel. Copies of such agreements shall be filed with the City Clerk and City Council.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 77; Ord. 1981 cs. 3, 18, 32; Ord. 1982 cs. 20, 36; Ord. 1983 c. 14)	11-4.4	Duties of Superintendent of Fire Alarm.	The Commissioner shall appoint a Superintendent of Fire Alarm, who shall, under the direction of the Commissioner, have the entire care and maintenance of the wires, posts, machinery, and appliances of the fire alarm telegraph and telephone system; shall see that all such wires, posts, machinery, and appliances are maintained in good order and condition; and shall keep in his office a map showing the locations of the same.(Rev. Ord., 1961 c. 14 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 78)	11-4.5	Monthly Report on Fires.	The Commissioner shall make to the Mayor a monthly report of the location and number of fires that have occurred in the preceding month, the cause of the same and the amount of property destroyed thereby, and shall, in his annual report, include a brief summary of such matters.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 79)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.32	11-4.6	Notice for Hearing on Charges.	The Commissioner shall, before calling before him a member of the Department for a hearing on charges, give such member at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of the charges made, and shall allow him to be represented at the hearing by Counsel.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 14 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 80)	11-4.7	Minimum Salaries.	Effective as of January 1, 1972, the minimum annual compensation of firefighter members of the Fire Department of the City, in the classification and 
salary grades as herein set forth, shall be not less than the following:	For the first year of service, ten thousand five hundred ($10,500.00) dollars;	For the second year of service, eleven thousand five hundred ($11,500.00) dollars;	For the third and each succeeding year of service, twelve thousand five hundred ($12,500.00) dollars.	“Service,” under the provisions hereof shall be deemed to commence with the date the appointee firefighter is first assigned to duty and continue until death, retirement, or termination of employment of the appointee. In determining years of service, credit shall be given for all time or period of service prior to December 31, 1971. All step increments in higher salary grade shall become due at intervals of a year’s service at the beginning of the second and third years of service and shall commence on the Sunday preceding the day on which such step increments shall become due.(Ord. 1972 c. 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 81)	11-4.8	NOTICE TO FIRE DEPARTMENT REGARDING DISCONTINUANCE OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE TO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.	(a)	Termination of Electrical Service.  All utility companies providing electrical service to residential properties within the City of Boston must provide notification, in writing by email, to the Boston Fire Commissioner, or his designee, no later than the close of business on the date of termination of electric service supplying a public service meter in a multi-family residential property. Utility companies shall only provide the address of the particular residential property.	(b)	Resumption of Electrical Service.  All utility companies continuing electrical service after a previous discontinuance of service must provide notification, in writing by email, to the Boston Fire Department Commissioner, or his designee, no more than forty-eight (48) hours after electric service has resumed at a public service meter in a multi-family residential property.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1108
11-4	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-4
	(c)	Advisory Guidelines upon Termination of Electrical Service.  In addition to the notification requirements imposed on all utility companies pursuant to Title 220, Chapter 25.00 of the Code of Massachusetts Regulations, all utility companies must provide a termination of electrical service advisory guideline as approved by the Commissioner of the Boston Fire Department, to all residential properties upon termination of electrical service.	(d)	Penalties.  Willful violation of this ordinance by any utility company providing electrical service to a residential property within the City of Boston, shall result in a fine of one hundred ($100.00) dollars for the first violation; two hundred ($200.00) dollars for the second violation; and three hundred ($300.00) dollars for every subsequent violation.	Nothing in this ordinance shall limit Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 164 § 124 or the Department of Public Utilities regulations.(Ord. 2011 c. 14)11-5	FIRE PREVENTION CODE.	11-5.1	Adoption By Reference.	The Boston Fire Prevention Code of 1979 was adopted by Ord. 1979 Chapter 28 on July 18, 1979.(Ord. 1979 c 28; Ord. 1990 c. 5, Ch. 6 § 1; Ord. 1999 c. 7)Editor’s Note:	Boston Fire Prevention Code of 1979 was	  printed as a separate document. A copy of the	  Boston Fire Prevention Code of 1979 is	  available in the Office of the City Clerk or	  Fire Department for use by the public. This	  ordinance is included by reference without the	  full test of the Code included herein.11-5.2	Blasting.	a.	Purpose.  All blasting within the Corporate Limits of the City of Boston shall comply with the requirements of 527 CMR, Board of Fire Prevention, Chapter 13.00, Explosives and Application Sections of the Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 148. In 
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1108.1
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES		1108.211-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
addition, blasting shall comply with, the following general and specific requirements and standards for the protection of people and property, land, and other natural resources. Unless otherwise provided for in this regulation, the provisions of 527 CMR 13.00 are applicable and must be complied with at all times.	b.	Definitions.  If any of the following definitions are inconsistent with definitions that appear in 527 CMR 13.00, the definition in 527 CMR 13.00 is the definition that governs.	Airblast. The airborne shock wave or acoustic transient generated by an explosion.	Always And Never. List of precautions (IME Safety Library Publication No. 4) printed by the Institute of Makers of Explosives pertaining to the transportation, storage, handling and use of explosive materials. Formerly titled Do’s And Don’ts.	American National Standards Institute (ANSI). A non-governmental organization concerned with developing safety and health standards for industry.	American Table of Distances. A quantity-distance table, prepared and approved by IME, for storage of explosive materials to determine safe distances from inhabited buildings, public highways, passenger railways, and other stored explosive materials.	Ammonium Nitrate. The ammonium salt of nitric acid represented by the formula NH4NO3.	Ampere. A unit of electrical current produced by 1 volt acting through a resistance of 1 ohm.	ANFO. A blasting agent (1.5D) containing no essential ingredients other than prilled ammonium nitrate and fuel oil.	ANSI. See American National Standards Institute.	Appropriate Authority. See Competent Authority.	Approved, Approval, or Authorized. Terms which mean Approved, Approval, or by the authority having jurisdiction.
	Artificial Barricade. An artificial mound or revetted wall of earth of a minimum thickness of three feet.	ATF. See Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, And Firearms.	Authorized Person. An individual approved or assigned by management to perform a specific duty or duties or to be at a specific location or locations.	Authority Having Jurisdiction. The governmental agency, office, or individual responsible for approving equipment, an installation, or a procedure.	Available Energy. The energy from an explosive material that is capable of performing useful work.	Backbreak. Rock broken beyond the limits of the last row of holes in a blast, synonymous with Overbreak.	Barricaded. The effective screening of a building containing explosive materials from a magazine or other building, railway, or highway by a natural or an artificial barrier. A straight line from the top of any sidewall of the building containing explosive materials to the eave line of any magazine or other building or to a point twelve feet above the center of a railway or highway shall pass through such barrier.	Barrier. A material object or objects that separates, keeps apart, or demarcates in a conspicuous manner such as cones, a warning sign, or tape.	Base Charge. The main explosive charge in the base of a detonator.	Binary Explosive. See Plosophoric Materials.	BATF. See Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, And Firearms.	Bench. A horizontal ledge from which holes are drilled vertically down into the material to be blasted; benching is a process of excavating where a highwall is worked in steps or lifts.
	1109
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
	Bench Height. The vertical distance from the top of a bench to the floor or to the top of the next lower bench.	Black Powder. A deflagrating or low explosive compound of an intimate mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and an alkali nitrate, usually potassium or sodium nitrate.	Blast, (Blasting). The firing of explosive materials for such purposes as breaking rock or other material, moving material, or generating seismic waves.	Blast Area. The area including the blast site and the immediate adjacent area within the influence of flying rock missiles, gases, and concussion. (**)	Blasthole. See Drill Hole and Borehole.	Blast Pattern. The plan of the drill holes as laid out for blasting; an expression of the burden distance and the spacing distance and their relationship to each other. Synonymous with Drill Pattern.	Blast Site. The area in which explosive materials are being or have been loaded and which includes all holes loaded or to be loaded for the same blast and for a distance of 50 feet in all directions. (**)	Blaster. A person who holds a valid Certificate of Competency issued by the State Fire Marshal and qualified to be in charge of and responsible for the design, loading, and firing of a blast. A blaster is recognized in his field as an explosives craftsman. (**)	Blasting Accessories. Non-explosive devices and materials used in blasting, such as, but not limited to, cap crimpers, tamping bags, blasting machines, blasting galvanometers, and cartridge punches.	Blasting Agent. An explosive material which meets prescribed criteria for insensitivity to initiation.For storage, Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 5511 defines a blasting agent as any material or mixture, consisting of fuel and oxidizer intended for blasting, not otherwise defined as an explosive; provided, that the finished product, as mixed for use or
shipment, cannot be detonated by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap (detonator) when unconfined (Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Regulation).For transportation, Title 49 CFR, Section II 73.50, defines Class 1, Division 1. 5 (blasting agent) as a substance which has mass explosion hazard but is so insensitive that there is very little probability of initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions in transport.	Blasting Cap. See Detonator.	Blasting Crew. A group of persons who assist the blaster in loading, tying in, and firing a blast.	Blasting Galvanometer. An electrical resistance instrument designed specifically for testing electric detonators and circuits containing them. It is used to check electrical continuity. Other acceptable instruments for this purpose are Blasting Ohmmeters and Blasters’ Multi-meters.	Blasting Log. A written record of information about a specific blast as may be required by law or regulation.	Blasting Machine. An electrical or electromechanical device which provides electrical energy for the purpose of energizing detonators in an electric blasting circuit. Also used in reference to certain non-electric systems (Sometimes called exploder or battery).	Blasting Mat. A mat of woven steel wire, rope, scrap tires, or other suitable material or construction to cover blastholes for the purpose of preventing flying rock missiles.	Blasting Vibrations. The energy from a blast that manifests itself in vibrations which are transmitted through the earth away from the immediate blast area.	Booster. An explosive charge, usually of high detonation velocity and detonation pressure, designed to be used in the explosive initiation sequence between an initiator or primer and the main charge.
	1110
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
	Borehole. A hole drilled in the material to be blasted, for the purpose of containing an explosive charge, also called Blasthole or Drill Hole.	Breakage. A term used to describe the site distribution of the rock fragments created by a blast.	Bridgewire. A resistance wire connecting the ends of the leg wires inside an electric detonator and which is embedded in the ignition charge of the detonator.	Bulk Strength. The strength per unit volume of an explosive calculated from its weight strength and density.	Burden. The distance from the borehole and the nearest free face or the distance between boreholes measured perpendicular to the spacing. Also the total amount of material to be blasted by a given hole, usually measured in cubic yards or tons.	Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. A bureau of the Department of Treasury having responsibility for the promulgation and enforcement of regulations related to the unlawful use of explosive materials under 18 USC Chapter 40, (BATF) Section 847.	Bureau of Mines. See U.S. Bureau of Mines.	Cap-Sensitive Explosive Material. An explosive material which will detonate with an IME No. 8 Test Detonator when the material is unconfined.	Capacitor Discharge Blasting Machine. A blasting machine in which electrical energy, stored on a capacitor, is discharged into a blasting circuit containing electric detonators.	Cartridge. An individual closed shell, bag, or tube of circular cross section containing explosive material.	Cartridge Count (Stick Count). The number of cartridges in a case. A standard case typically contains about 50 pounds of explosive material. Unless otherwise specified it refers to the number of 1¼ x 8 inch cartridges in a 50 lb. case.	Cartridge Strength. Synonymous with Bulk Strength.
	CFR. See Code of Federal Regulations.	Circuit. A completed path for conveying electrical current. See Series Blasting.	Circuit, Parallel Blasting Circuit, and Series-in-parallel Blasting Circuit. (Some non-electric systems also use the word circuit.)	Class A Explosives. A term formerly used by the U.S. Department of Transportation to describe explosives which possess detonating or otherwise maximum hazard. (Currently classified as Division 1.1 or 1.2 materials).	Class B Explosives. A term formerly used by the U.S. Department of Transportation to describe explosives which possess flammable hazard. (Currently classified as Division 1.3 materials.)	Class C Explosives. A term formerly used by the U.S. Department of Transportation to describe explosives which contain Class A or Class B explosives, or both as components but in restricted quantities. (Currently classified Division 1.4 materials.)	Code of Federal Regulations. A codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation.	Collar. The mouth or opening of a borehole or shaft.	Column Charge. A charge of explosives in a blasthole in the form of a long continuous unbroken column.	Column Depth/Column Height. The length of each portion of a blasthole filled with explosive materials.	Competent Authority. A national agency responsible under its national law for the control or regulation of a particular aspect of the transportation of hazardous materials. Also referred to as Appropriate Authority (Ref. 49 CFR).
	1111
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
	Confined Detonation Velocity. The detonation velocity of an explosive material in a substantial container or a borehole.	Connecting Wire. Wire used to extend the firing line or leg wires in an electric blasting circuit.	Continuity Check (Circuit Continuity Check). A determination made by instrumentation where possible, and visually in all cases, to show that an initiation system is continuous and contains no breaks or improper connections that could cause stoppage or failure of the initiation process.	Coupling. The degree to which an explosive fills the cross-section of a borehole: bulk loaded explosives are completely coupled; untamped cartridges are decoupled.	Critical Diameter. The minimum diameter for propagation of a detonation wave at a stable velocity. Critical diameter is affected by conditions of confinement, temperature and pressure on the explosive.	Current Leakage. Portion of the firing current bypassing part of the blasting circuit through unintended paths.	Current Limiting Device. An electric or electromechanical device that limits (1) current amplitude; (2) duration of current flow; or (3) total energy of the current delivered to an electric blasting circuit.	Cushion Blasting. A blasting technique used to produce competent slopes or smooth walls. The cushion holes, fired after the main charge, have a reduced spacing and employ decoupled charges.	Cutoff. A break in a path of detonation or initiation caused by extraneous interference, such as flyrock or shifting ground.	Date-Shot Code. A code, required by Federal regulation (BATF), applied by manufacturers to the outside shipping containers, and, in many instances, to the immediate containers of explosive materials to aid in their identification and tracing.
	Dautriche Method-Detonation Velocity. A method of determining the detonation velocity of an explosive material by employing detonating cord and a witness plate.	DC. Direct current.	Decibel. A unit of air overpressure commonly used to measure airblast.	Deck Loading (Decking). A method of loading blastholes in which the explosive charges called decks or deck charges, in the same hole are separated by stemming or an air cushion.	Deck. An explosive charge that is separated from other charges in the blasthole by stemming or an air cushion.	Decoupling. The use of cartridged explosive products significantly smaller in diameter than the diameter of the blasthole. Decoupling or the use of decoupling charges is designed to reduce the charge concentration in the blasthole and minimize stresses exerted on the walls of the blasthole.	Deflagration. An explosive reaction such as a rapid combustion that moves through an explosive material at a velocity less than the speed of sound in the material.	Delay. A distinct pause of predetermined time between detonation or initiation impulses, to permit the firing of explosive charges separately.	Delay Blasting. The practice of initiating individual explosive decks, boreholes or rows of boreholes at predetermined time intervals using delay detonators, or other delaying means, as compared to instantaneous blasting where all holes are fired essentially at the same time.	Delay Detonator. An electric or non-electric detonator used to introduce a predetermined lapse of time between the application of a firing signal and the detonation of the base charge.	Delay Element. The device in a delay detonator that produces the predetermined time lapse between the application of a firing signal and detonation.
	1112
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
	Delay Interval. The nominal time between the detonation of delay detonators of adjacent periods in a delay series; the nominal time between successive detonations in a blast.	Delay Period. A designation given to a delay detonator to show its relative or absolute delay time in a given series.	Delay Series. A series of delay detonators designed to satisfy specific blasting requirements. There are basically two types of delay series: millisecond (MS) or short period (SP) with delay intervals on the order of milliseconds and long period (LP) with delay time on the order of seconds.	Delay Tag. A tag, band, or marker on a delay detonator that denotes the delay series, delay period and/or delay time of the detonator.	Delay Time. The lapse of time between the application of a firing signal and the detonation of the base charge of a delay detonator.	Density. The mass of an explosive per unit of volume, usually expressed in grams per cubic centimeter or pounds per cubic foot (also see Specific Gravity).	Department of Transportation (DOT). A cabinet level agency of the Federal Government. It has the responsibility for the comprehensive regulation of transportation safety and issues regulations governing interstate shipments of explosives and other hazardous materials.	Detonating Cord. A flexible cord containing a center core of high explosive which may be used to initiate other high explosives.	Detonating Cord Downline. The section of detonating cord that extends within the blasthole from the ground surface down to the explosive charge.	Detonating Cord MS Connectors. Nonelectric short-interval (millisecond) delay devices for use in delaying blasts which are initiated by detonating cord.	Detonating Cord Trunkline. The line of detonating cord that is used to connect and initiate other lines of detonating cord.
	Detonation. An explosive reaction that moves through an explosive material at a velocity greater than the speed of sound in the material.	Detonation Pressure. The pressure produced in the reaction zone of a detonating explosive.	Detonation Velocity. The velocity at which a detonation progresses through an explosive.	Detonator. Any device containing an initiating or primary explosive that is used for initiating detonation in another explosive material. A detonator may not contain more than ten (10) grams of total explosives by weight, excluding ignition or delay charges. The term includes, but is not limited to, electric blasting caps of instantaneous and delay types, blasting caps for use with safety fuse, detonating cord delay connectors, and nonelectric instantaneous and delay blasting caps which use detonating cord, shock tube, or any other replacement for electric leg wires. Unless specifically classified otherwise, detonators are classified 1.I (Class A explosives). Also see Detonators 1.4 (Class C Explosives).	Detonators 1.4 (Class C Explosives). Initiating devices which will not mass explode when packaged for shipment. (See Mass Explode)	Diameter. The cross-sectional width of a borehole or an explosive cartridge.	Ditch Blasting. The formation of a ditch by the detonation of a series of explosive charges.	Ditching Dynamite. A nitroglycerin type explosive especially designed to propagate sympathetically from hole to hole in ditch blasting.	Do’s And Dont’s. Former name of a list of precautions (IME Safety Library Publication No. 4) printed by the Institute of Makers of Explosives pertaining to the transportation, storage, handling, and use of explosive materials and included in cases of explosive materials. Recently renamed, Always And Never.	DOT. See Department of Transportation.	Downline. A line of detonating cord or plastic tubing in a blasthole which transmits the detonation 
	1113
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
from the trunkline or surface delay system down the hole to the primer.	Drill Hole. A hole drilled in the material to be blasted for the purpose of containing an explosive charge, also called Blasthole or Borehole.	Drilling Pattern. The location of blastholes in relationship to each other and the free face.	Dynamite. A high explosive used for blasting, consisting essentially of a mixture of, but not limited to nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, ammonium nitrate, sodium nitrate, and carbonaceous materials.	Electric Blasting Circuit. An electric circuit containing electric detonators and associated wiring. Also see Parallel, Series, and Series-In-Parallel Blasting Circuits.	Electric Detonator. A detonator designed for, and capable of, initiation by means of an electric current.	Electrical Storm. An atmospheric disturbance characterized by intense electrical activity producing lightning strokes and strong electric and magnetic fields. Synonymous with Thunderstorm and Lightning Storm.	Emergency Procedure Card. Instructions carried on a vehicle transporting explosive materials and giving specific procedures in case of emergency.	Emulsion. An explosive material containing substantial amounts of oxidizer dissolved in water droplets, surrounded by an immiscible fuel, or droplets of an immiscible fuel surrounded by water containing substantial amounts of oxidizer.	Energy. A measure of the potential for an explosive to do work.	Explode. To react chemically in a rapid manner to produce heat and pressure. The term encompasses both deflagration and detonation.	Explosion. A chemical reaction involving an extremely rapid expansion of gas usually associated with the liberation of heat.
	Explosive. Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion, i.e., with substantially instantaneous release of gas and heat. In 527 CMR 13.00, explosives shall be a Class I Explosives Materials. Class I Explosives Materials shall be divided into six divisions, the divisions being characteristic of the properties and hazards of the particular explosives materials. The Divisions of Class I Explosives Materials shall be:Division 1.1: explosives that have a mass explosion hazard. (formerly Class A explosives).Division 1.2: explosives that have a projection hazard but not a mass explosion hazard. A high explosive. (formerly Class A or Class B explosives).Division 1.3: explosives that have a fire hazard and either a minor blast hazard or a minor projection hazard, or both, but not a mass explosion hazard. A low explosive. (formerly Class B explosives).Division 1.4: explosives that present a minor explosion hazard. An external fire must not cause virtual instantaneous explosion of almost the entire contents of the package. No device may contain more than 25 g (0.9 oz) of a detonating material. A low explosive. (formerly a Class C explosive).Division 1.5: very insensitive explosive materials that have a mass explosion hazard but are so insensitive that there is little or no probability of initiation or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions of transport. (formerly a blasting agent).Division 1.6: extremely insensitive articles that do not have a mass explosion hazard, and articles that demonstrate a negligible probability of accidental initiation or propagation. (no applicable hazard class). (**)	Explosive-Actuated Device. Any tool or special mechanized device which is actuated by explosives. The term does not include propellant-actuated devices. (Also see Propellant-Actuated Power Device.) Examples of explosive-actuated devices are jet tappers and jet perforators.
	1114
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
	Explosive Charge. The quantity of explosive material used in a blasthole, coyote tunnel, or explosive device.	Explosive Loading Factor. The amount of explosive used per unit of rock. Also called Powder Factor.	Explosive Materials. Any explosive, blasting agent or detonator. The term includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, and other explosives, slurries, emulsions, and water gels, black powder, pellet powder, initiating explosives, detonators (blasting caps), safety fuse, squibs, detonating cord, smokeless propellants, small arms ammunition, small arms percussion caps, smokeless primers, igniter cord and igniters. (**)	A list of explosive materials determined to be within the coverage of 18 USC Chapter 40, Importation, Manufacture, Distribution and Storage of Explosive Materials, is issued at least annually by the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms of the Department of the Treasury.	The U.S. Department of Transportation classification of explosive materials used in commercial blasting operations are not identical with the statutory definitions of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, Title 128 USC Section 841.To achieve uniformity in transportation the definitions of the U.S. Department of Transportation in Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations parts 1999 subdivides these materials into:DIVISION 1.1 Mass exploding (Class A explosives)DIVISION 1.2 Projection hazard (Class A or Class B explosives)DIVISION 1.3 Fire hazard, minor blast (Class B explosives) or projection hazard DIVISION 1.4 Minor explosion (Class C explosives) hazard not mass exploding DIVISION 1.5 Insensitive explosives, (Blasting Agents) Very little probability of initiation or transition from burning to detonation during transport.	Explosive Strength. The amount of energy released by an explosive upon detonation which is an 
indication of the capacity of the explosive to do work. (see also Energy.)	Extra (Ammonia) Dynamite. A dynamite in which part of the nitroglycerin is replaced by ammonium nitrate in sufficient quantity to result in the same weight strength.	Extraneous Electricity. Electrical energy, other than actual firing current or the test current from a blasting galvanometer, that is present at a blast site and that could enter an electric blasting circuit. It includes stray current, static electricity, RF (electromagnetic) waves, and time varying electric and magnetic fields.	Fertilizer Grade Ammonium Nitrate. A grade of ammonium nitrate as defined by The Fertilizer Institute.	Fire Extinguisher Rating. A rating set forth in the National Fire Code which may be identified on an extinguisher by a number (5, 20, 70, etc.) indicating the extinguisher’s relative effectiveness followed by a letter (A, B, C, etc.) indicating the class or classes of fires for which the extinguisher has been found to be effective.	Fire-resistant. Construction designed to provide reasonable protection against fire. (For exterior walls or magazines constructed of wood, this shall mean fire resistance equivalency provided by sheet metal of not less than 26 gauge.)	Firing Current. An electric current of recommended magnitude and duration to sufficiently energize an electric detonator or a circuit of electric detonators.	Firing Line. The wire(s) connecting the electrical power source with the electric blasting circuit.	Flags-Danger. Flags, usually red, which may or may not be imprinted with a warning and used to caution personnel around explosives operations, or displayed on trucks transporting explosives.	Flammability. The ease with which an explosive material may be ignited by flame and heat.
	1115
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
	Flashover. The sympathetic detonation between explosive charges or between charged blastholes.	Flash Point. The lowest temperature at which vapors from a volatile combustible substance ignite in air when exposed to flame, as determined in an apparatus specifically designed for such testing.	Flyrock. Rocks propelled from the blast area by the force of an explosion.	Fragmentation. The breaking of a solid mass into pieces by blasting.	Free Face. A rock surface exposed to air or water which provides room for expansion upon fragmentation; sometimes called open face.	Fumes. The gaseous products of an explosion. For the purpose of determining the fume classification of explosive materials, only poisonous or toxic gases are considered.	Fuse. See Safety Fuse.	Fuse Cap. A detonator which is initiated by a safety fuse; also referred to as an ordinary blasting cap. Synonymous with Blasting Cap, also see Detonator.	Fuse Cutter. A mechanical device for cutting safety fuse clean and at right angles to its long axis.	Gap Sensitivity. The maximum length of gap across which a detonation weave will travel and initiate a second or receptor cartridge. Both primer and receptor cartridge should be of the same composition, diameter, and weight. Usually refers to gap in air but other media may be used.	Gelatin Dynamite. A type of highly water resistant dynamite characterized by its gelatinous or plastic consistency.	Geology. A description of the types and arrangement of rock in an area; the description usually includes the dip and strike, the type and extent of preexisting breaks in the rock, and the hardness and massiveness of the rock, as these affect blast design.
	Grains. In the avoirdupois system of weight measurement 7,000 grains are equivalent to one standard 16 ounce pound (0.45 kg.). A grain is 0.0648 grams in both the avoirdupois and the troy system.	Ground Fault. An electrical path between parts of the blasting circuit and earth.	Ground Vibration. Shaking the ground by elastic waves emanating from a blast; usually measured in inches per second of particle velocity.	Hangfire. The detonation of an explosive charge at some non-predictable time after its normally designed firing time.	Hardwood. Red oak, white oak, hard maple, ash or hickory, free from loose knots, wind shakes, or similar defects.	Hazardous Materials Advisory Council (HMAC). An international organization representing shippers and carriers, container manufacturers and reconditioners, and emergency response companies for hazardous materials.	Hertz (Hz). Synonymous with cycles per second.	High Explosives. Explosives which are characterized by a very high rate of reaction, high pressure development, and the presence of a detonation wave in the explosive.	Highwall. A nearly vertical face at the edge of a bench, bluff, or ledge on a surface excavation.	Hole Diameter. The cross-sectional width of the borehole.	Igniter Cord. A small diameter pyrotechnic cord that burns at a uniform rate with an external flame and used to ignite a series of safety fuses.	IME. See Institute of Makers of Explosives.	IME-22 Container (Compartment). A container (portable), or a compartment (permanently affixed to a vehicle), which is constructed in accordance with IME SLP-22 specifications and is authorized by the 
	1116
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
Department of Transportation for the transport of certain types of detonators on the same vehicle with other explosives.	IME Fume Classification. A classifcation indicating the amount of carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide produced by an explosive or blasting agent. Explosives with positive oxygen balances are not considered as being acceptable in these classifications. See Appendix F	Incendivity. The property of an igniting agent (e.g., spark, flame or hot solid) which indicates it is of sufficient intensity to ignite flammable material or explosive gases.	Inhabited Building. A building regularly occupied in whole or part as a habitation for human beings, or any church, schoolhouse, railroad station, store, or other structure where people are accustomed to assemble, except any building or structure occupied in connection with the manufacture, transportation, storage or use of explosive materials.	Initiation. The start of deflagration or detonation in an explosive material.	Initiator. A detonator, detonating cord or similar device used to start detonation or deflagration in an explosive material.	Instantaneous Detonator. A detonator that has a firing time of essentially zero seconds as compared to delay detonators with firing times of from several milliseconds to several seconds.	Institute of Makers of Explosives. A nonprofit, safety oriented trade association representing producers of commercial explosive materials in the U.S. and Canada and dedicated to safety in the manufacture, transportation, (IME) storage, handling and use of explosive materials.	Institute of Makers of Explosives No. 8 Test Detonator. IME No. 8 test detonator has 0.40 to 0.45 grams PETN base charge pressed to a specific gravity of 1.4 g/cc and primed with standard weights of primer, depending on manufacturer.	Inventory. A listing of all explosive materials stored in a magazine.
	Issuing Authority. The governmental agency, office, or official vested with the authority to issue permits or licenses.	Leading (Lead) Lines or Wires. The wires connecting the electrical power source with the circuit containing electric detonators. See Firing Line.	Leakage Resistance. The resistance between the blasting circuit (including lead wires) and the ground.	Leg Wires. The two single wires or one duplex wire extending out from an electric detonator.	Loading. Placing explosive material in a blasthole or against the material to be blasted.	Loading Density. The weight of explosive loaded per unit length of borehole occupied by the explosive, expressed as pounds/foot or kilograms/meter of borehole.	Loading Pole. A nonmetallic pole used to assist in the placing and compacting explosive charges in boreholes.	Low Explosives. Explosive which are characterized by deflagration or low rate of reaction and the development of low pressure. See Deflagration.	Magazine. Any building, structure, or container, other than an explosives manufacturing building, approved for the storage of explosive materials.	Magazine Keeper. A person responsible for the inventory and safe storage of explosive materials, including the proper maintenance of explosive materials, storage magazines and areas.	Magazine, Surface. A specially designed and constructed structure for the storage of explosive materials on the surface of the ground.	Magazine Underground. A specially designed and constructed structure for the storage of explosive materials underground.	Main Explosive Charge. The explosive material that performs the major work of blasting.
	1117
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
	Manufacturing Codes. Code markings stamped on explosives materials packages, indicating among other information, the date of manufacture.	Mass Explode (Mass Explosion). An explosion which affects almost the entire load or quantity of explosives virtually instantaneously.	Maximum Recommended Firing Current. The highest electric current which will result in the safe and effective performance of an electric detonator.	Millisecond. One thousandth part of a second (.001 or 1/1000 sec.)	Mine Safety And Health Administration (MSHA). An agency of the Department of Labor concerned with promulgation and enforcement of health and safety regulations in the mining field.	Misfire. A blast or specifc borehole that failed to detonate as planned. Also, the explosive materials that failed to detonate as planned.	MS Connectors. Nonelectric, short interval (millisecond) delay devices for use in delaying blasts which are initiated by detonating cord. Same as Detonating Cord MS Connectors.	MSHA Approval. A document issued by MSHA which states that an explosive or explosive unit has met MSHA requirements and which authorizes an approval marking identifying the explosive or explosive unit as approved as permissible.	Muckpile. The pile of broken material resulting from a blast.	National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). An independent, non-profit association organized to promote the science and improve the methods of fire protection and prevention, electrical safety and other related safety goals.	National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standards. Standards for explosive materials and ammonium nitrate issued by the National Fire Protection Association.
	National Safety Council (NSC). A non-profit organization charged by Congress to provide a regular information service on the causes of accidents and ways to prevent them.	Natural Barricade. Natural features of the ground such as hills, or timber of sufficient density that the surrounding exposures which require protection cannot be seen from the magazine when the trees are bare.	Nitroglycerin. An explosive chemical compound used as a sensitizer in dynamite and represented by the formula (C3H5(ON02)3.	Nonelectric Detonator. A detonator that does not require the use of electric energy to function.	Occupational Safety And Health Administration (OSHA). An agency of the Department of Labor active in eliminating occupational hazards and promoting employee health and safety.	Office of Surface Mining (OSM). An agency of the Department of the Interior regulating surface coal mining and the surface effects of underground coal mining.	Overburden. Material of any nature laying on top of a deposit of material which is to be mined.	Parallel Blasting Circuit. An electric blasting circuit in which one leg wire of each detonator is connected to one of the wires from the source of firing current and the other wire from the firing current source. (Can also be used to refer to certain nonelectric systems.)	Particle Velocity. See Velocity.	Parting. A rock mass located between two seams of coal; a joint or crack in rock.	Permissible Diameter. The smallest allowable diameter of particular permissible explosive, as approved by the Mine Safety and Health (SMALLEST) Administration (MSHA).	Permissible (MSHA) Approved Explosives. Explosives that are approved by the Mine Safety and 
	1118
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
Health Explosives Administration for use in gassy and dusty atmospheres. Permissible explosives must be used and stored in accordance with certain conditions specified by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA).	Placards. Signs placed on vehicles transporting hazardous materials (including explosive materials) indicating the nature of the cargo.	Plosophoric Materials. [Binary Explosives], two of more unmixed, commercial manufactured, prepackaged chemical ingredients including oxidizers, flammable liquids or solids, or similar substances that are not independently classified as explosives but which when mixed or combined form a mixture that is classified as an explosive and that is intended for blasting. It may be classified by the Hazardous Materials Regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation as an explosive depending on its susceptibility to detonation. (**)	Powder. A common synonym for explosive materials.	Powder Factor. The amount of explosive used per unit of rock. Also called Explosive Loading Factor.	Power Source. The source of power for energizing electric blasting circuits, e.g., a blasting machine or power line.	Preblast Survey. A documentation of the existing condition of structures near an area where blasting is to be conducted.	Premature Firing. The detonation of an explosive charge before the intended time.	Presplimng (Preshearing). A smooth blasting method in which cracks for the final contour are created by firing a single row of holes prior to the initiation of the rest of the holes in the blast pattern.	Prilled Ammonium Nitrate. Ammonium nitrate in a pelleted or prilled form.	Primary Blast. A blast used to fragment and displace material from its original position to facilitate subsequent handling and crushing.
	Primary Explosive. A sensitive explosive which nearly always detonates by simple ignition from such means as spark, flame, impact, friction, or other primary heat sources of appropriate magnitude.	Primer. A unit, package or cartridge or explosives used to initiate other explosives or blasting agents, and which contains: (1) a detonator; or (2) detonating cord to which is attached a detonator designed to initiate the detonating cord.	Propagation. The detonation of an explosive charge by an impulse received from an adjacent or nearby explosive charge.	Quantity-Distance Table. A table listing minimum recommended distance from explosives materials stores of various weights to a specific location.	Radio Frequency Energy (RF). The energy radiated as electromagnetic waves in the radio frequency spectrum.	Radio Frequency Transmitter. An electronic transmitting device which radiates radio frequency waves. The transmitting device may be fixed (stationary) or mobile, and includes car telephones, citizens band radios, AM and FM radio transmitters, television transmitters and radar transmitters.	Regulations Federal, State, Local. Regulations promulgated by Federal, State or local regulatory agencies governing the manufacturer, transportation, storage, sale, possession, handling and use of explosive materials.	Relief. The effective distance from a blasthole to the nearest free face (Synonymous with burden.)	Resistance. The measure of opposition to the flow of electrical current, expressed in ohms.	Rotational Firing. Delay blasting system used so that the detonating explosives will successively displace the burden into the void created by previously detonated explosives in holes which fired at an earlier delay period.	Round. A group of boreholes fired or intended to be fired in a continuous sequence with the application of initiating energy.
	1119
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
	Safety Fuse. A flexible cord containing solid flammable materials by which fire or flame is conveyed at a continuous and uniform rate from the point of ignition to a cut end. A fuse detonator is usually attached to that end, although safety fuse may be used without a detonator to ignite material such as deflagrating explosives.	Safety Standard. Suggested precautions relative to the safety practices to be employed in the manufacture, transportation, storage, handling and use of explosive materials.	Scaled Distance. A factor relating similar blast effects from various weight charges of explosive material at various distances. Scaled distances referring to blasting effects is obtained by dividing the distance of concern by a fractional power of the weight of the explosive materials.	Seam. A stratum or bed of coal or other material. May also refer to a crack or joint in a blast area which may be filled with mud or other material. A seam may be in any orientation.	Secondary Blasting. Blasting to reduce the size of boulders resulting from a primary blast.	Seismograph. An instrument, useful in monitoring blasting operations, which records ground vibration. Particle velocity, displacement, or acceleration is generally measured and recorded in three mutually perpendicular directions.	Sensitiveness. A measure of an explosive’s cartridge-to-cartridge propagating ability under certain test conditions. It is expressed as the distance through air at which a primed half cartridge (donor) will detonate an unprimed half cartridge (receptor). Also see Gap Sensitivity.	Sensitivity. A physical characteristic of an explosive material classifying its ability to be initiated upon receiving an external impulse such as impact, shock, flame, friction or other influence which can cause explosive decomposition.Cap-Sensitive Explosive Material. Any explosive material that can be detonated by means of a No. 8 blasting cap or its equivalent. 
	Cap-sensitive material SHALL be classified as an explosive.Non Cap-Sensitive Explosive Material. Any explosive material that can NOT be detonated by means of a No. 8 blasting cap or its equivalent. Non cap-sensitive material SHALL NOT be classified as an explosive. (**)	Separation Distances. Minimum recommended distances from explosive materials accumulations to other specified locations.	Sequential Blasting Machine. A blasting machine designed to actuate separate series of detonators at accurately timed intervals. Also called Sequential Timer.	Sequential Timer. See Sequential Blasting Machine.	Series Blasting Circuit. An electric blasting circuit that provides one continuous path for the current through all caps in the circuit.	Series-in-parallel Blasting Circuit. A circuit in which electric detonators are divided into two or more balanced groups being connected together in series and the groups being connected together in parallel.	Shock Tube. A small diameter plastic tube used for initiating detonators. It contains only a limited amount of reactive material so that the energy that is transmitted through the tube by means of a detonation wave is guided through and confined within the walls of the tube.	Shock Wave. A transient pressure pulse that propagates at supersonic velocity.	Short Delay Blasting. The practice of detonating blastholes in successive intervals where the time difference between any two successive detonations is measured in milliseconds.	Shot Anchor. A device that anchors explosive material charges in the borehole so that the charges will not be blown out by the detonation of other charges or, in seismic work, cannot be pulled out of the borehole by the leg wires.
	1120
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
	Shot Break. A space consisting of an undrilled or drilled area which may include loaded or unloaded blastholes to separate two individual blasts located on the same bench.	Shot Firer. See Blaster. (Shot firer usually refers to an underground coal mine blaster).	Shunt (Shunting). The shorting together of the free ends of (1) electric detonator leg wires, or (2) the wire ends of an electric blasting circuit or part thereof. The term also applies to an electrical shorting device applied to the free ends of electric detonators by the manufacturer.	Signs - Explosive (Placards). Signs, called placards, placed on vehicles transporting explosives denoting the character of the cargo, or signs placed near storage areas as a warning to unauthorized personnel.	Slurry. see Water Gel or Slurry.	Spacing. The distance between boreholes. In bench blasting, the distance is measured parallel to the free face and perpendicular to the burden.	Specific Gravity. The ratio of the weight of any volume of substance to the weight of an equal volume of pure water.	Stability. The ability of an explosive material to retain chemical and physical properties specified by the manufacturer when exposed to specific environmental conditions over a particular period of time.	Static Electricity. Electric charge at rest on a person or object. It is most often produced by the contact and separation of dissimilar insulating materials.	Stemming. Inert material placed in a borehole on top of or between separate charges of explosive material. Used for the purpose of confining explosive materials or to separate charges of explosive material in the same borehole.	Storage. The safekeeping of explosive materials usually in specially designed structures called magazines.
	Stray Current. A flow of electricity outside an insulated conductor system.	Subdrilling. The practice of drilling boreholes below floor level or working elevation to insure breakage of rock to working elevation.	Sympathetic Detonation. The detonation of an explosive material as the result of receiving an impulse from another detonation through air, earth or water. Synonymous with Sympathetic Propagation. (See also Flashover.)	Table of Recommended Separation Distances of Ammonium Nitrate and Blasting Agents From Explosives or Blasting Agents. A quantity distance table designed to prevent explosion of ammonium nitrate and ammonium nitrate-based blasting agents by propagation from nearby stores of high explosives or blasting agents. It is based on a “donor-receptor” relationship developed by the U.S. Bureau of Mines.	Tamping. The action of compacting the explosive charge or the stemming in a blasthole. Sometimes refers to the stemming material itself.	Tamping Pole. A wooden or plastic pole used to compact explosive charges or stemming. (See also Loading Pole.)	Temporary Storage. Storage of explosives for less than 24 hours.	Test Blasting Cap No. 8. See Institute of Makers of Explosives No. 8 Test Detonator.	Toe. In bench blasting, excessive burden measured at the floor level of the bench.	Unbarricaded. The absence of a natural or artificial barricade around explosive storage areas of facilities.	Unconfined Detonation Velocity. The detonation velocity of an explosive material fired without confinement; for example, a charge fired in the open. (Paper tubes are generally not considered as confinement.)	Underwriters Laboratory Inc. (UL). A nationally recognized incorporated testing laboratory 
	1121
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
qualified and equipped to conduct the necessary tests to determine compliance with appropriate standards and the satisfactory performance of materials or equipment in actual usage.	U.S. Bureau of Mines (USBM). A former bureau of the Department of Interior active in promoting safety in coal mines and in carrying out board programs in mining and related fields.	Volt. The unit of electromotive force. It is the difference in potential required to make a current of one ampere flow through a resistance of one ohm.	Velocity. The measurement of speed. (**)	Velocity, Particle. The velocity at which the earth vibrates, measured in inches/sec, or cm/sec. (**)	Velocity, Peak Particle. The highest recorded particle velocity. (**)	Velocity, Seismic. The velocity at which a vibration or seismic wave travels in the earth outward from the source. It is measured in thousands of feet per second. (**)	Volume Strength. Synonymous with Cartridge Strength. See Bulk Strength.	Warning Signal. A visual or audible signal which is used for warning personnel in the vicinity of the blast area of the impending explosion.	Water Gel or Slurry. A wide variety of materials used for blasting manufactured with varying degrees of sensitivity to initiation and may be classified as explosives or non explosive blasting agents. Water gels may be premixed at an explosive manufacturing building or mixed at the site immediately before delivery into the borehole. (**)	Water Resistance. The ability of an explosive to withstand the desensitizing effect of water penetration.	Watt. A unit of electrical power equal to one joule per second.	Weight Strength. The energy of an explosive material per unit of weight. Often expressed as a 
percentage of the energy per unit of weight of a specified explosive standard.	(**) Commonwealth of MA Board of Fire Prevention Regulations, 527 CMR 13.03 Definitions	c.	General requirements. These requirements apply equally to division l. Construction Blasting and division m. Quarry Blasting.		1.	Use And Handling Permit (Permit To Blast) Provisions.			(a)	Use and Handling Permit shall be issued by the Head of the Boston Fire Department for all blasting conducted within Boston City limits.			(b)	Prior to a Use and Handling Permit being issued, the Blaster shall provide the following:				(1)	A valid Explosive Users Certificate (Own and Possess Certificate) issued by the State Fire Marshal.				(2)	A certificate of insurance providing General Liability insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000/$1,000,000 (Note: a Use and Handling Permit shall be issued only for the explicit time period covered by the effective dates of the GL policy).				(3)	A Blasting Bond with the City of Boston or the Commonwealth of Massachusetts named as the certificate holder. (Note: a Use and Handling Permit shall be issued only for the period of time covered by the effective dates of the Bond).				(4)	A Certificate of Competency (Blaster’s License) for each person(s) who could be responsible for blasting operations including shot design, charge loading, wiring, and detonation.				(5)	Written proof, in a form approved by the Head of the Fire Department that Dig Safe has been notified of the proposed blasting operations and a dig safe number was issued in accordance with M.G.L c. 82 § 40.				(6)	Proof that the required Preblast Inspection Surveys have been completed.
	1122
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
				(7)	The route that the explosives are going to be transported to the site must be pre-approved by the Special Hazards Section of the Fire Prevention Division. The time of arrival at the site and the time leaving the site should be included.	d.	Preblast information requirements. 		1.	A blast analysis and a blast design plan as specified in 527 CMR 13.09 (1), (k) & (l), shall be provided and explained to the Head of the Fire Department.		2.	The blast analysis shall consider adjacent area structure(s), building(s), building foundations, utilities, including gas and water supply lines, septic systems and swimming pools, and area geology within the distances defined in Table 1 in division h. The blast analysis shall identify commercial equipment such as computers, electron microscopes, laser equipment, relays etc., which are sensitive to vibrations, and other underground objects that might be damaged by the effects of a blast.		3.	In preparing the blast design plan and blast analysis, the following shot variables, as a minimum, shall be considered to minimize the adverse effects of ground vibrations and flyrock:			(a)	Maximum charge weight detonating at one time (i.e., within 8 milliseconds).			(b)	True Distance (distance the waves must travel).			(c)	Geological conditions.			(d)	Degree of confinement.			(e)	Physical properties of the rock.			(f)	Coupling.			(g)	Spatial distribution.			(h)	Detonator timing scatter.			(i)	Time duration of energy release.			(j)	Type of explosive or blasting agent.
		4.	The following shot variables, as a minimum, shall be considered to minimize the adverse effects of air blast:			(a)	Maximum charge weight detonating at one time (i.e., within 8 milliseconds).			(b)	Depth of burial of the charges.			(c)	Exposed detonating material on the ground surface.			(d)	Atmospheric conditions.			(e)	Temperature and temperature gradients.			(f)	Wind velocity, direction, and gradients.			(g)	Atmosphere and time of day.			(h)	Topography.			(i)	Volume of displaced rock.			(j)	Delay interval and orientation.			(k)	Type of explosive.		5.	The Blaster shall familiarize the Fire Department with the site and proposed Blasting Operations. The blaster shall provide a vicinity map drawn to scale to illustrate the blasting zone(s) and all structures and other infrastructure. The vicinity map should include all structures to a radial distance determined from Table 1 in division h. A visit to the site to familiarize the Fire Department’s designated personnel with conditions may be required per order of the Head of the Fire Department.	Exception: For quarries complying with all of the requirements of division m. of this subsection, the radial distance of the vicinity map shall be the distance of the Blast Analysis as determined in subdivision m.3.		6.	A preblast conference may required by the Head of the Fire Department, at which the Head of the Fire Department shall review its concerns and comments with the blaster. Any conditions resulting 
	1123
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
from this conference shall be made in writing and shall become part of the Permit by reference.		7.	The Head of the Fire Department, in a written statement, shall, if it deems it necessary and in the public interest, require an independent blasting consultant, specialist, engineer or geologist, at the cost of the applicant, acceptable to the Head of the Fire Department be retained as a consultant. Said consultant, specialist, engineer or geologist shall produce a preblast analysis and assist the blaster in the preparation of a blast design plan as defined in 527 CMR 13.09(1), (k) & (l), and by this subsection. The analysis will include an assessment of the impacts of blasting on the stability of existing steep soil or rock slopes in the vicinity, sufficient to meet approval of the Head of the Fire Department.	e.	Storage of explosive materials. 		1.	On site storage of explosive materials shall be in approved day boxes or in DOT approved truck mounted magazines as detailed in 527 CMR 13.05 Storage.		2.	Adequate security must be provided to prevent unauthorized access to the explosive material while it is on-site.		3.	A system must be in place to warn responding emergency personnel about location of explosives. The system utilized should be documented and submitted at time of permit application.		4.	An effort shall be made to locate the day box, or truck mounted magazine, at safe distances from homes and roads.		5.	Overnight storage of explosives on site shall not be allowed unless written permit is obtained from the Fire Chief or his designee. If a storage permit is granted then location of the magazine shall comply with Table 1 of 527 CMR 13.05. In addition, a fire watch as determined by the Head of the Fire Department of not more than two (2) uniformed firefighters shall be posted on site, at the blaster’s expense with sufficient fire fighting equipment to extinguish or control any fire exposure to the stored explosives.
	f.	Transportation of explosives. 		1.	All vehicles transporting explosives in or through the City of Boston shall be under the jurisdiction of the Fire Department. All vehicles transporting explosives in or through the City of Boston shall also be under the jurisdiction of any other authority given legal jurisdiction by applicable state or federal regulation or law.		2.	The route that the explosives are going to be transported to the site must be pre-approved by the Special Hazards Section of the Fire Prevention Division. The time of arrival at the site and the time leaving the site should be included.		3.	All traffic violations involving vehicles transporting explosives shall be reported to the Head of the Fire Department for investigation.		4.	The Fire Chief, or his designee, or the State Fire Marshal, or his designee, shall investigate all traffic accidents involving vehicles that are transporting explosives.		5.	None of the vehicles involved in the accident, or the explosives, shall be moved without the approval of the Fire Chief, or his designee, or the State Fire Marshal, or his designee.	g.	Record keeping.		1.	All blasting operations must be fully documented, as required in 527 CMR 13.09(8) Blasting Log and herein. The following are minimum standards for what are regarded as the essentials of adequate blasting logs and vibration records. These logs and vibration records must be provided to the Head of the Fire Department the same day as the blast. Records of each event must be kept, by the licensed blaster, for a minimum of three years. Quarries, and other locations where long-term blasting occurs, should also keep records on-site. Records of each event shall:			(a)	Include the name and blaster’s license, of the operator conducting the blast.			(b)	Include the location, date and time of the blast and reference to the blasting permit granted for the blast.
	1124
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
			(c)	Identify the nearest dwelling, public building, school, church, institutional building or underground structure outside the permit area and establish the direction and distance from the nearest blasthole to the nearest structure. All distances shall be made accurately by direct measurement in the field or by measurement from a scale drawing of the blast vicinity.			(d)	Include weather conditions, including those which may cause possible adverse blasting effects.			(e)	Record the type of material blasted.			(f)	Incorporate sketches of the blast pattern, including number of holes, burden, spacing, decks, and delay pattern.			(g)	Specify the diameter and depth of the holes, and type and length of stemming at the top of borehole and between explosive decks in multi-deck shots.			(h)	Record the type of explosive used, the total weight of explosive used, the weight per hole and the maximum weight of explosives detonated in any one-delay period.			(i)	Specify the initiation system and the nominal firing time of each distinct detonation.			(j)	Provide detailed descriptions of mats or other protection used.			(k)	Document the type of seismographic instruments, their sensitivity (or range setting) and their calibration signals and certificates of annual calibration.			(l)	Document the exact location of seismographic instrument, date, time and accurate distance from the blast.			(m)	Show that name and firm (can be the operator) analyzing the seismographic record.		2.	Vibration levels and airblast recorded. The levels that were actually recorded should be 
compared to the predicted levels in the blast plan and blast analysis. If the actual observations are consistently higher than those predicted, then modifications should be made to the scaled distance relationship being used and the new scaled distance predictive relationship, including all data and statistical analyses, should be forwarded to the Head of the Fire Department.	h.	Preblast inspection surveys.		1.	Preblast inspection surveys shall be conducted as outlined in 527 CMR 13.09(10) Preblast Inspection Surveys, and by this subsection.		2.	For blasting operation for which no historical data exists to assist in predicting probable vibration levels, the Head of the Fire Department may order preblast inspection surveys to be conducted to distances that differ from the 250 feet distance required by 527 CMR 13.09. The required distance for preblast inspection surveys is dependent on the size of the blast, as measured in terms of the maximum pounds of explosives detonated per delay. Table 1 provides distances to which preblast inspection surveys shall be required.	Exception: Quarries complying with all of the requirements of division m. of this subsection shall not be required to conduct preblast surveys unless required by 527 CMR.		3.	A map drawn to scale shall be submitted to identify all structures for which preblast surveys were made. This site map shall include all structures located at distances determined from Table 1.	TABLE 1Required Radial Distances for Preblast Inspection SurveysExplosives, Wpounds overExplosives, Wpounds not overDistance to nearest blasthole, feet0102501120325
	1125
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
Explosives, Wpounds overExplosives, Wpounds not overDistance to nearest blasthole, feet213040031404754150550516062561707007180775819085091100925101 or more100 * W½W = maximum pounds of explosives per delay (i.e., detonated within 8 milliseconds)	Note: The distances in Table 1 are derived from 527 CMR Section 13.09 Table 2. The distances in Table 1, The Preblast Survey Table, are increased by approximately 50% over the distances in 527 CMR Section 13.09 Table 2. This increase is needed to take into account that particle velocities may be much higher than anticipated using the scaled distances assumed in 527 CMR Section 13.09 Table 2. Under some geological conditions particle velocities may be higher by a factor of two or more. Under conditions of high confinement, such as the opening holes in a heading or pre-splitting they may be higher by a factor of five or more. These numbers can also be derived approximately by utilizing the statistics published in RI-8507 and developing a model for the 95th percentile.	i.	Blasting operations.		1.	No loaded drillholes shall be left unattended. Loaded or drillholes that are present after normal working hours shall not be detonated unless and until approval is received from the Head of the Fire Department or his designee, or the Fire Marshal or his designee.
		2.	The Fire Department shall be notified by the blaster in charge each day that blasting is done at least two hours before any blasting on site. It is required that the blaster shall also call the Fire Alarm Office immediately before each blast.		3.	Blasting mats shall be used for all blasts except where the Head of the Fire Department deems it impractical.	Exception: Quarries complying with all of the requirements of division m. of this subsection shall not be required to use blasting mats unless required by 527 CMR.		4.	The blast site shall be tested for extraneous, static and electromagnetic currents, especially when electric blasting caps are used near overhead power transmission lines, and within the recommended Tables of Distance from radio transmitters as listed and graphed in Institute of Makers of Explosives, Safety Library Publication No. 20, “Safety Guide for the Prevention of Radio Frequency Radiation Hazards in the use of Commercial Electric Blasting Detonators (Blasting Caps)”, December 1988.	j.	Seismograph monitoring of blasts.		1.	All seismographs shall be placed and utilized in accordance with 527 CMR Section 13 and the Seismograph Field Practice Guidelines as listed in Appendix K of ISEE Blasters Handbook 17th Edition.		2.	In all cases, the operator should describe the field conditions and set-up procedures in the permanent record of each blast.		3.	One seismograph shall be placed at the location of the closest residence or above ground structure, not controlled by the project, to the blast. A second seismograph shall be placed at the location that is at the closest house or structure, not controlled by the project, approximately 180° away from the first seismograph, or at another location mutually agreed upon by the Blaster and the Head of the Fire Department. Where it is deemed necessary by the Head of the Fire Department, a third seismograph shall be located at a residence or other structure mutually agreed upon by the Blaster and the Head of the Fire Department.
	1126
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
	k.	Vibration and airblast. Blasts that exceed the maximum allowable limit for peak particle velocity vs, frequency, or decibel levels as established by this subsection or are known to the blaster to have produced flyrock shall immediately be reported to the Head of the Fire Department. In case of exceedance of vibration or airblast limits, the blaster shall, prior to the next blast, forward to the Head of the Fire Department a written statement, signed by the responsible Blaster, as to why the exceedance occurred and what steps will be talcen to prevent further exceedance. In the case of flyrock, the Blasting Permit must be re-applied for and will not be issued without an independent analysis of the blast, which shall include an explanation of the reasons why the flyrock occurred and recommended steps to be taken to prevent further flyrock incidents.	l.	Construction blasting.		1.	Vibration and airblast.			(a)	The blaster shall be required to record the effects of all blasts on a seismograph of the type specified in 527 CMR 13.09(9)(C) 1 and 2.			(b)	Blasting logs containing the information listed in 527 CMR 13.09(8) Blasting Log shall be kept for each blast.			(c)	The ground vibration limits shall be the limits shown in 527 CMR 13.09(9) Allowable Limits of Effects of Blasting Option 2, Figure (b), Particle Velocity v. Frequency, USBM Recommendation (RI8507, 1980).			(d)	The air blast limit shall be 133 dB peak.	m.	Quarry blasting.		1.	Signage, notification, and access.				(a)	Blasting signs, warnings and access control. The operator shall:				(1)	Conspicuously place a series of durable signs reading “WARNING! BLASTING AREA-DANGER” along the edge of any blasting area 
that comes within 100 feet of any public right of way and at the point where any other road provides access to the blasting area.				(2)	At all entrances to the permit area from public roads or highways, place conspicuous signs that state “WARNING! EXPLOSIVES IN USE” which clearly list and describe the meaning of the audible blast warning and the all-clear signals that are in place, and which the marking of blasting areas and charge holes waiting for firing within the permit area.				(3)	Warning and all-clear signals of different character or pattern shall be sounded prior to and following each blast. Warning sirens or horns shall be deployed at the perimeter of the quarry and directed toward abutting inhabited structures. These devices shall produce a sound level in the range of 115 to 125 dB at the source. Prior to the start of each blasting season, all residences and businesses, identified in the blast analysis, shall be notified by means of legal notice in local newspapers or other equivalent means of public notice. Notification shall report the approximate date that blasting will commence for the upcoming season, the expected number of blasts per day and per week during the season, and clear explanations of the meaning of all warning and all-clear signals.				(4)	Access within the blasting area shall be controlled to prevent the presence of unauthorized persons during blasting. No person shall enter the blasting area until an authorized representative has reasonably determined that no unusual hazards, such as imminent slides or undetonated charges exist, and access to and travel within the blasting area can be safely resumed.		2.	Safe vibration limits.			(a)	The ground vibration limits shall be the limits shown in 527 CMR 13.09(9) Allowable Limits of Effects of Blasting Option 2, Figure (b), Particle Velocity v. Frequency, USBM Recommendation (RI8507, 1980), except that the maximum peak particle velocity for all frequencies greater than 20 Hz shall be 1.0 in./sec. 
	1127
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5 
	Allowable vibration limits for quarry blasting are shown on Figure 1 and are listed in Table 2.
	FIGURE 1 	Vibration Limits for Quarries.
	TABLE 2	Vibration Limits for QuarriesVIBRATION LIMITParticle Velocity (in/sec)1.00.192.00.382.65 to 9.950.50100.50120.60140.70
VIBRATION LIMITParticle Velocity (in/sec)160.80180.9019.91.020 to 1001.0			(b)	Where sufficient blast data is available to prepare square root scaled distance plots, compliance with vibration limits shall be achieved by submittal of blast designs that predict 90% of the permitted vibration level with a 95% degree of 
	1128
11-5	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5
confidence. For the case that 95% of the vibrations have frequencies greater than or equal to 20 Hz, the target vibration for blast design shall be 0.90 x 1.0 in/sec, or 0.90 in/sec. For the case that 95% of the vibrations are greater than or equal to 10 Hz, the target vibration with a 95 % degree of confidence shall be 0.90 x 9.75 in/sec, or approximately 0.70 in/sec. For the case that 5% or more of the vibrations are less than 10 Hz, the target vibration for blast design shall be 0.90 x 0.5 in/sec, or 0.45 in/sec.			(c)	Existing quarries shall analyze vibration data acquired during the previous blasting year for the purpose of designing blasts to comply with these vibration limits.			(d)	New quarries, or quarries for which historical data is lacking, shall conduct a series of test blasts to establish vibration and noise propagation trends sufficient to predict vibrations at the 95% confidence level for proposed production blasts. Details of the test blasting procedures shall be submitted to the Head of the Fire Department for review and approval.		3.	Blast analysis. The area for the blast analysis for quarries will include the area completely included within the line at which peak particle velocity exceeded 0.25 ips, during the previous 3 years. These distances shall be determined in the blast analysis using published or site-specific predictive equations. For the case that peak vibration and airblast observations significantly differ from predictions of published models, the blast analysis shall be performed using site-specific data and predictive models. Development and planned usage of site-specific predictive models for ground vibration and airblast propagation shall be documented in reports submitted to the Head of the Fire Department.		4.	Seismograph monitoring. One seismograph shall be placed at the location of the closest inhabited building or structure, not controlled by the quarry, to the blast. A second seismograph shall be placed at the closest residence behind the open face of the blast. The third seismograph shall be placed at a location mutually agreed upon by the quarry and the Head of the Fire Department.
		5.	Independent consultation. 			(a)	Quarries shall retain the services of a consultant who shall, on an annual basis, review the seismographic reports from the proceeding year and make recommendations designed to minimize the impact from vibrations on the surrounding neighborhood, for the upcoming year based on the location in which the quarry intends to blast. Prior to each blasting season, representatives from the quarry together with representatives from the licensed blaster hired by the quarry and the consultant shall meet with the Head of the Fire Department or his designee to review the quarry’s plans for blasting for the upcoming season.			(b)	The consultant’s annual reports should include analyses of all items that mitigate the effects of noise and vibration (N/V) transmitted into the neighborhoods surrounding the quarry, These reports need to be comprehensive and cumulative so that any new blasting contractor will have readily accessible the entire year-by-year history (i.e., past 5 years) of implementations of blast designs and the success or failure of such designs to maintain N/V amplitudes at levels acceptable to the Head of the Fire Department.			(c)	At a minimum the shot variables to be considered are:				(1)	Maximum charge weight detonating at one time.				(2)	True distance (distance the waves must travel).				(3)	Geological conditions.				(4)	Confinement.				(5)	Physical properties of the rock.				(6)	Coupling.				(7)	Spacial distribution.				(8)	Detonator timing scatter.
	1129
11-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5A
				(9)	Time of energy release.				(10)	Type of explosive.	n.	Severability.		1.	Partial validity. In the event any part or provision of this subsection is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions thereof, which are determined to be legal; and it shall be presumed that this subsection would have been passed without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions.		2.	Segregation of invalid provisions. Any invalid part of this subsection shall be segregated from the remainder of this subsection by the court holding such part invalid, and the remainder shall remain in effect.(Ord. 2000 c. 6)11-5A	FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.	11-5A.1	Definitions.	When used in this section, unless contrary intention clearly appears, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:	a.	Central Station Operating Company shall mean a company equipped to receive a fire alarm signal from each of its customers and which then transmits to the Boston Fire Department (BFD) the location of any such alarm the central station operating company receives.	b.	Fire Alarm System shall mean any heat-activated, smoke-activated, flame energy-activated or other such automatic device capable of transmitting a fire alarm signal to either a central station operating company or directly to the BFD by way of a master box.	c.	Fire Alarm System Malfunction shall mean the transmittal of a fire alarm to a central station operating company or directly to the BFD by way of a master box which alarm is caused by a malfunction. For the purposes of this section, a malfunction is defined as the failure of a fire alarm system to operate in the normal or usual manner due to improper 
installation or maintenance and/or mechanical defect(s) in the system, resulting in the transmittal of a needless alarm signal to the BFD.	d.	Fire Alarm System Owner shall mean an individual or entity who owns the title to and/or has on his business or residential premises a fire alarm system equipped to send a fire alarm signal to a central station operating company or directly to the BFD by way of a master box.	e.	Fire Marshal shall mean the Deputy Fire Chief in charge of the Fire Prevention Division of the BFD, designated by the Fire Commissioner as the Fire Marshal of the City of Boston.	f.	Half-year Period shall mean January 1 through June 30 or July 1 through December 31, as the case may be, of any calendar year.	g.	Head of the Boston Fire Department shall mean the Chief of the Boston Fire Department, designated by the Boston Fire Commissioner as Chief Executive Officer.	h.	Master Box Owner shall mean an individual or entity who has on his business or residential premises a fire alarm system equipped to send a fire alarm signal directly to the BFD by way of a master box.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.2	Connection of Fire Alarm Systems to the BFD by Way of a Master Box.	Before the fire alarm system is connected to the BFD, the master box owner shall provide the Fire Marshal with the following information:	a.	The name, address, and home and work telephone numbers of the master box owner;	b.	The street address where the master box is located;	c.	The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the persons or businesses protected by the fire alarm system connected to the master box; and
	1130
11-5A	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5A
	d.	The names, addresses and home and work telephone numbers of at least two (2) persons other than the owner who can be contacted twenty-four (24) hours a day, who are authorized by the master box owner to respond to an alarm signal and who have access to the premises in which the master box is located.	If at passage of this section a fire alarm system has already been connected to the BFD by way of a master box, the master box owner shall comply with the requirements of this subsection within sixty (60) days after the BFD has sent him notice by first class mail of the requirements of this subsection.	If a master box owner fails to comply with this subsection, the Fire Marshal may assess a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars for each day of non-compliance.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.3	Connection of Central Station Operating Companies to the BFD.	Before the central station operating company is connected with the BFD, it shall provide the Fire Marshal with the following information:	a.	The name, address and telephone numbers of the central station operating company;	b.	The names, addresses, and home and work telephone numbers of at least two (2) persons who can be contacted twenty-four (24) hours a day, who are authorized by the central station operating company to respond to an alarm signal and who have access to the premises from where the alarm signal is emitting to the central station operating company; and	c.	The name, address, home and work telephone numbers, and location of the premises of each customer of the central station operating company who has a fire alarm system equipped to send a fire alarm signal to the central station operating company.	If at the passage of this section a central station operating company already has a direct connection to the BFD, the central station operating company shall comply with the requirements of this subsection within sixty (60) days after the BFD has sent it notice by first class mail of the requirements of this subsection.
	If a central station operating company fails to comply with this subsection, the Fire Marshal may assess a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars for each day of non-compliance.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.4	Updating Information.	Every master box owner and every central station operating company shall be responsible for updating the information herein required to be provided to the Fire Marshal. If the information provided changes, the master box owner and the central station operating company shall provide the Fire Marshal with the updated information by the January first, following the changes. If a master box owner or a central station operating company fails to comply with this subsection, the Fire Marshal shall assess a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars for each day of non-compliance.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.5	Fire Alarm System Malfunctions--Fines.	If there are more than three (3) fire alarm system malfunctions, as defined herein, in a particular building in any half-year period, then the Fire Marshal may assess a fine pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21, against a fire alarm system owner for the fourth and any subsequent malfunction according to the following schedule:	a.	Fourth malfunction:	$  50.00	b.	Fifth malfunction:	$  75.00	c.	Sixth malfunction:	$100.00	d.	Seventh malfunction:	$150.00	e.	Eighth and any subsequent malfunction				$200.00	Notice of citation regarding any malfunction shall be given to the owner in writing.	Except as set forth below, for the eighth and any subsequent malfunction in a particular building in any such half-year period, the Fire Marshal may assess an additional fine of two hundred ($200.00) 
	1131
11-5A	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5A
dollars for each day after the date of such malfunction until the fire alarm system owner, through the Informal Determination process, either Demonstrates Compliance or Demonstrates No Malfunction, as those terms are defined below. The imposition of any such additional fee shall be suspended during the pendency of any Informal Determination or appeal proceeding as described below.	With respect to any malfunction for which an alarm system owner is cited, such owner shall have the right to seek to (i) Demonstrate Compliance or (ii) Demonstrate No Malfunction to the Fire Marshal. The Fire Marshal’s decision or determination with respect thereto shall herein be called the “Informal Determination.”	If the fire alarm system owner seeks an Informal Determination, then the Fire Marshal shall provide the owner with the opportunity or occasion to Demonstrate Compliance and/or No Malfunction.	The term “Demonstrate Compliance,” as used herein, shall mean that the fire alarm system owner can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Fire Marshal that the cause(s) of any such fire alarm system malfunctions are being adequately addressed or have been or can be remedied in a reasonable time period as determined by the Fire Marshal. The term “Demonstrate No Malfunction,” as used herein, shall mean that the fire alarm system owner can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Fire Marshal that the cited fire alarm was not caused by a fire alarm system malfunction.		1.	If, within ten (10) business days after a fire alarm system owner’s receipt of written notice of a citation of any fire alarm system malfunction, the fire alarm system owner seeks an Informal Determination by the Fire Marshal, and:			(a)	If the Informal Determination is that the fire alarm system owner has Demonstrated Compliance, then there will be no additional fines, or			(b)	If the Informal Determination is that the fire alarm system owner has not Demonstrated Compliance or No Malfunction, unless the owner appeals the Informal Determination under subsection 11-5A.7 hereof, then, for the eighth and any subsequent malfunction, due to the seriousness of this 
situation, the Fire Marshal shall assess such additional fine of two hundred ($200.00) dollars per day until the owner Demonstrates Compliance with respect to such violation.		2.	If a fire alarm system owner seeks an Informal Determination at any time and such Informal Determination is that the fire alarm system owner has demonstrated No Malfunction, then the citation for any such malfunction shall be rescinded by the Fire Marshal.		3.	If a fire alarm system owner appeals, under subsection 11-5A.7 hereof, any malfunction for which the owner is cited or assessed a fine, then, any fines shall be held in abeyance until final resolution of the appeal process. If any appellant is successful in such appeal process, no fines shall be assessed. If the appellant is unsuccessful in such appeal process, total fines shall be calculated from the day of the filing of the formal appeal.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.5A	Municipal Charges Lien.	If a fine assessed for a fire alarm system malfunction pursuant to subsection 11-5A.5 hereof has not been paid by the due date, the Fire Marshal, or his designee, shall impose a lien on the real property where such malfunction occurred, pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 58 and shall notify the fire alarm system owner in writing of such lien. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to fines that remain unpaid or that become due and payable on or after the effective date of this subsection.(Ord. 1992 c. 10 § 1)	11-5A.6	Restrictions on Tape Dialers and Similar Telephone Devices.	No fire alarm system shall be equipped with a tape dialer or similar automatic telephone device which will transmit an alarm message to any telephone lines of the BFD. If at the passage of this section a fire alarm system is equipped with such a tape dialer or similar automatic telephone device, the fire alarm system owner shall have sixty (60) days from passage of this section to disconnect such tape dialer or similar automatic telephone device. If a fire alarm system 
	1132
11-5A	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5B 
owner fails to comply with this subsection, the Fire Marshal may assess a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.7	Appeal Procedures.	Any fire alarm system owner who is aggrieved by any action or determination taken by the Fire Marshal under this section may, within ten (10) business days of such owner’s receipt of written notice of any such action or determination, or such longer period of time as may be authorized in writing by the Fire Marshal, file an appeal, in writing, to the Fire Marshal and to the head of the BFD, as defined herein. After notice of a citation to such owner, the Head of the BFD, or his designee, shall, within ten (10) days after such owner’s appeal, hold a hearing, after which he shall issue a decision in which he affirms, annuls or modifies the action taken by the Fire Marshal, giving his reasons in writing therefor. The Head of the BFD shall send his decision to the owner by first class mail within ten (10) days after the hearing. The decision of the Head of the BFD shall be a final administrative decision. The owner shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the owner’s receipt of such written decision to seek judicial review in the appropriate court.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.8	Regulations and Enforcement.	The Fire Marshal may promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to implement this section. The Fire Marshal is authorized to pursue such legal action as may be necessary to enforce this section.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.9	Deposit in the General Fund.	All fines assessed herein shall be payable to the City of Boston for deposit in the General Fund.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 2)	11-5A.10	Severability.	The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent 
jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 3)	11-5A.11	Effective Date.	This section shall take effect on January 1, 1989.(Ord. 1988 c. 5 § 4)11-5B	PROHIBITING THE SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF FIREWORKS.	11-5B.1	Sale, Possession and Use of Fireworks Prohibited.	No person shall sell, possess or use fireworks (including but not limited to firecrackers, cherry bombs, silver salutes, M-80's, torpedoes, sky-rockets, Roman candles, sparklers, rockets, wheels, colored fires, fountains, mines, serpents or other fireworks of like construction) within the City; provided, however, that duly licensed wholesalers may sell fireworks to retailers for resale outside the City; and provided further that persons having a permit issued under authority of M.G.L. Chapter 148, Section 10A, may purchase fireworks and display them in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 148 of the General Laws and in compliance with the rules and regulations of the Department of Public Safety.(Ord. 2001 c. 9)	11-5B.2	Penalty.	Violators of any provision of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than three hundred ($300.00) dollars nor more than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars.(Ord. 2001 c. 9)	11-5B.3	Severability.	The provisions of this section shall be severable and if any section, part, or portion hereof shall be held invalid for any purpose by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any remaining section, part or portion thereof.(Ord. 2001 c. 9)
Rev. 1/30/02	1133
11-5C	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5C
11-5C	REGISTRATION OF LABORATORIES.	11-5C.1	Purpose.	As a state, regional, national, and international medical, educational, and commercial center, the City of Boston is home to over five thousand (5,000) laboratories advancing cutting edge technologies and techniques that seek to benefit the residents of the City of Boston, the residents of Massachusetts and the United States, and the population of the world. In this pursuit, however, many laboratories utilize or generate radioactive, infectious, toxic, hazardous, or noxious substances, chemicals, or conditions. These substances, chemicals, or conditions have the latent and actual capacity to inflict grave harm upon people ill-equipped to manage their harmful conditions in the event of a public health or public safety emergency. The primary responders (for example, BFD, BPD, and/or EMS) do not currently have information that may prove critical to their emergency response – they do not know where all of the laboratories are located in the City of Boston and they do not know what is contained within these laboratories. These sections, by requiring registration of laboratories and inspections of laboratories, will, once fully implemented, ensure that the public safety and public health personnel have the information that they need to adequately, effectively, and safely respond to any emergencies occurring within laboratories in order to protect the welfare of the laboratory, the neighborhood, and the greater population.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.2	Definitions.	Unless specifically indicated otherwise, the definitions contained in CBC 11-4, 11-5, and 11-5A shall apply and control in these sections.	City shall mean the City of Boston.	Commissioner shall mean the Commissioner of the Boston Fire Department.	Laboratory shall mean a building, room, or workplace designed and/or used for the development, conduct, or observation of scientific, including but not limited to the medical, chemical, physical, or biological disciplines, experimentation or research, including non-routine testing, analysis, experimentation, or other similar activities that involve
the use or storage of hazardous materials as defined by Section 20.02(C) of the City of Boston Fire Department Fire Prevention Code. Specifically excluded from this definition are classroom laboratories, dark rooms, autoclave rooms, pharmacies, drug stores, physician’s offices or the offices of other direct-care health care providers, hospital or health care dispensaries, or other facilities providing medication directly to patients.	Laboratory facility shall mean a building or a portion of a building containing one (1) or more laboratories operated by a single owner-operator. No laboratory facility may be comprised of more than one (1) building or physical address.	Owner shall mean a person or entity that owns a laboratory or a laboratory facility.	Owner-operator shall mean a person or entity that operates a laboratory and shall include an owner-operator’s duly authorized agent.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.3	Registration and Database.	a.	On or after January 1 but no later than April 1 of every calendar year subsequent to the year of a laboratory’s or a laboratory facility’s initial registration, every owner-operator shall register with the Commissioner each and every laboratory or laboratory facility of the owner-operator which shall include the most current information available to the owner-operator, but in no event shall that information be less recent than December 31 of the prior calendar year. The Commissioner shall prepare the forms for registration which shall require the owner-operator to identify (i) the name and contact information of the owner-operator; (ii) the physical address of each and every laboratory facility of the owner-operator; and (iii) the names and contact information of one (1) or more emergency coordinator(s) for each laboratory facility location. The forms for registration shall require the owner-operator to certify that the laboratory facility is in compliance with Boston Fire Prevention Code 86-1 with respect to the posting of signage for the identification of hazardous materials located within a laboratory and a laboratory facility. The forms for registration shall require the owner-operator to certify that it has adopted an internal set of written policies, practices, and/or procedures to ensure compliance with these sections.
Rev. 1/27/07 Supp. 6	1134
11-5C	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5C
	b.	The emergency coordinator identified in the registration may be a twenty-four (24) hour per day, seven (7) days per week, three hundred sixty-five (365) days per year operations center of the owner-operator, provided that the operations center has twenty-four (24) hour per day, seven (7) days per week, three hundred sixty-five (365) days per year access to an individual with proficiency and knowledge of the facilities and operations in the laboratory or laboratory facility related to the requirements of these sections.	c.	All registration forms shall be completed by the owner-operator of the laboratory or laboratory facility and executed by the owner-operator under the pains and penalties of perjury.	d.	The Commissioner may develop and provide a process for an electronic method of registration by owner-operators.	e.	For public safety purposes only, the Commissioner shall, on or before July 1 of every calendar year, prepare a database of the information collected pursuant to the registration of laboratories and/or laboratory facilities which shall be accessible by the Boston Fire Department, the Boston Police Department, the Boston Public Health Commission, the Boston Emergency Medical Services, the Boston Emergency Management Agency, and the Inspectional Services Department and which shall be added to the City of Boston Public Safety Computer-Aided Dispatch (CAD) System. The Commissioner shall make a hard copy of this database available to its district stations.	f.	As long as they are located within the same building and at the same physical address, an owner-operator may elect to aggregate laboratories into a laboratory facility for purposes of these sections. In no event may a laboratory or a laboratory facility include laboratories or laboratory facilities that are not in the same building and at the same physical address.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.4	Boston Fire Prevention Code.	Each laboratory and/or laboratory facility shall comply with Boston Fire Prevention Code 86-1, as it may be revised or replaced, with respect to the posting
of signage for the identification of hazardous materials located within the laboratory and/or laboratory facility.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.5	Emergency Data and Response Plans.	a.	The owner-operator of each laboratory and/or laboratory facility shall maintain hard copy or soft copy of information, or the means to immediately obtain the information, at the laboratory or laboratory facility that, in an emergency, shall be immediately available to the owner-operator and to the first responders such as the Boston Fire Department, the Police Department, or Emergency Medical Services, as well as other local, State, regional, or Federal public health or public safety agencies that may be required to respond to an emergency or incident at a laboratory or a laboratory facility and that includes, at a minimum, the following:		1.	Floor plans or other means or materials to assist first responders in locating laboratories within a laboratory facility;		2.	Name and contact information of at least one (1) emergency coordinator for the laboratory or laboratory facility who is knowledgeable about the nature of the operations and/or the hazards that may be located or who has immediate access to a person who is knowledgeable about the nature of the operations and/or the hazards that may be located in the laboratories located within the laboratory facility;		3.	Access cards and/or keys to all laboratories in the laboratory facility; and		4.	Any additional information reasonably requested by the Boston Fire Department during its pre-incident planning process with the owner-operator to identify the means by which a first responder may obtain information about special or unique hazardous materials that might be present in specific laboratories, including material safety data sheet access instructions for those materials where an emergency response may require unique protection of person or property.	b.	The Commissioner is authorized to augment this list through the promulgation of regulations upon consultation with the technical advisory group appointed pursuant to these sections.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)
Rev. 1/27/07 Supp. 6	1134.1
11-5C	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-5C
	11-5C.6	Inspections.	a.	In order to ensure that the public health and the public safety are protected and the City of Boston first responders are protected from the potential hazards that may be posed by laboratories and/or laboratory facilities, on or before the first anniversary of the passage of these sections and subsequent to analysis of the information collected through the registration processes required by these sections, the Commissioner shall implement a program of inspection of laboratories and/or laboratory facilities. At the discretion of the Commissioner, this programmatic inspection may require full physical inspections of the laboratories and/or laboratory facilities or may require only inspection of the laboratories’ or laboratory facilities’ compliance with the registration requirements, emergency preparedness including but not limited to the information required to be readily available to first responders, and signage.		b.	The Commissioner may collaborate and cooperate with the Commissioner of the Inspectional  Services Department in developing a program of inspections.	c.	If any owner-operator knowingly impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to the laboratory and/or the laboratory facility for the purposes delineated in these sections, then the Commissioner and/or the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of the site and apprises said owner-operator concerning the nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, the justification for the inspection, and may seek the assistance of the law enforcement community in presenting said warrant.	d.	If any person knowingly impedes, inhibits, interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to the laboratory and/or the laboratory facility for the purposes delineated in these sections, then the Commissioner or the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department may seek in a court of competent jurisdiction an inspection warrant that allows for the inspection of the site and apprises said person or other person concerning the nature of the inspection, the scope of the inspection, the
justification for the inspection, and may seek the assistance of the law enforcement community in presenting said warrant.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.7	Registration and Inspection Guide.	a.	The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall prepare for public distribution a guide of not more than two (2) pages which summarizes the registration and inspection requirements. The requirements of this section may be satisfied through the publication or presentation of the guide in a downloadable format on the City’s website. Each and every owner-operator shall ensure that a hard copy of this guide is posted at all times in the laboratory facility in a place clearly visible to all persons employed by or working in the laboratory facility. An owner-operator may supplement this posting requirement through electronic distribution or electronic posting of this guide and such methods may substitute for the physical posting only with the approval of the Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department.	b.	Each and every owner shall annually supply hard copy of the registration and inspection guide to each and every laboratory in each and every laboratory facility owned by the owner.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.8	Registration Fee.	a.	The annual registration fee shall be derived according to total area of the laboratory or laboratory facility submitting the registration as follows:		1.	A laboratory or laboratory facility with one (1) square foot to twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet shall remit five hundred ($500.00) dollars;		2.	A laboratory or laboratory facility with twenty-five thousand and one (25,001) square feet to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet shall remit six hundred fifty ($650.00) dollars;		3.	A laboratory or laboratory facility with one hundred thousand and one (100,001) square feet to two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) square feet shall remit seven hundred fifty ($750.00) dollars; and
Rev. 1/27/07 Supp. 6	1134.2
11-5C	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-5C
		4.	A laboratory or laboratory facility with two hundred fifty thousand and one (250,001) square feet or more shall remit one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars. In no event, however, shall any single owner-operator pay more than five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars to register a laboratory, laboratory facility, or number of laboratory facilities pursuant to this section.	b.	The fee for registration of a laboratory or a laboratory facility shall be remitted by the owner-operator at the time of registration. The fee is intended to generate enough revenue to ensure that the costs of implementation and continuation of this registration program are wholly covered by the registration fees.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.9	Violations, Penalties, and Enforcement.	a.	Violations of these sections specifically include, but are not limited to:		1.	The failure to register in accordance with these sections;		2.	The failure to maintain a complete emergency data and response plan in accordance with these sections;		3.	The failure to post a guide in accordance with these sections;		4.	The failure to comply with any other requirement of these sections; and		5.	The interference with an inspection.	b.	The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall have the authority to seek an injunction from a court of competent jurisdiction directing the owner-operator to comply with the requirements of these sections.	c.	Each and every violation of CBC 11-5C shall be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty ($50.00) dollars and not more than three hundred ($300.00) dollars and these fines shall supplement any other fines promulgated in the General Laws of Massachusetts, the Code of Massachusetts Regulations, and the City of Boston Code of Ordinances. Each and every day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate violation.
	d.	The provisions of M.G.L. c. 40, s. 21D may be used to enforce these sections.	e.	The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall have the authority to delegate enforcement of these sections to any City department authorized to enforce public safety, public health, or environmental rules, regulations, ordinances, and/or statutes.	f.	Nothing in these sections shall prohibit the Commissioner or the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department from issuing written warnings to an owner-operator or any other person or entity. For the purposes of CBC 11-5C, the Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services Department may not issue more than two (2) warnings for the same violation in a laboratory and/or laboratory facility to any owner-operator, person, or entity.	g.	The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services Department may commence an action in the Courts of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for violations that remain uncorrected for more than thirty (30) calendar days and for fines that remain unpaid for more than sixty (60) calendar days.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.10	Technical Advisory Committee.	The Commissioner shall appoint twelve (12) people to a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) that shall be composed of six (6) representatives of the research laboratory community and six (6) public officials. The TAC shall meet at least twice annually to promote the understanding of hazards and mitigation measures in the laboratory environment, to exchange best practices in laboratory operations, to promote consistent application of the requirements of these sections, and to devise the parameters and execution of the programmatic inspections anticipated by these sections.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.11	Regulatory Authority.	The Commissioner and the Commissioner of the Inspectional Services Department shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
Rev. 1/27/07 Supp. 6	1134.3
11-5C	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-6
necessary to implement and enforce these sections and shall consult with the Technical Advisory Committee appointed pursuant to these sections.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.12	Severability.	If any provision of these sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)	11-5C.13	Implementation.	a.	The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services shall prepare and promulgate the documents and forms required by these sections within ninety (90) calendar days of passage.	b.	Each and every owner-operator shall submit the registration materials required by these sections within ninety (90) calendar days of promulgation of documents and forms by the Commissioner and the Commissioner of Inspectional Services.(Ord. 2006 c. 4)11-6	PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.	11-6.1	Powers and Duties of Commissioner.	a.	There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Public Works Department, which shall be under the charge of an officer known as the Commissioner of Public Works, who shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected and who may be removed by the Mayor with or without cause.	b.	The Commissioner shall construct all streets; shall have the discretionary power as to the grades, materials and other particulars of construction of streets and sidewalks; shall have charge of and keep clean and in good condition and repair the streets, including the portions of
Commonwealth Avenue previously under the control of the Parks and Recreation Commission; shall remove and dispose of, at the expense of the Public Works Department, all refuse and recycling from buildings occupied by the City except those under the control of the School Committee, shall remove and dispose of the acceptable refuse and recycling from privately owned properties, including, but not limited to, homes, condominiums and apartment buildings and shall promulgate rules and regulations consistent with and/or in compliance with all applicable state regulations to govern such removal. The Commissioner shall not be required to take any refuse or recycling from any commercial, non-profit, educational, business, retail or manufacturing establishments, or any refuse or recycling not generated within the City of Boston.(Ord. October 7, 1833; Ord. 1908 c. 3; Ord. 1910 c. 9; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 45; Ord. 1955 c. 3; Ord. 1956 c. 8; Ord. 1959 c. 7 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 150; Ord. 2010 c. 6)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 6-1.4; Ord. ss 7-4.2; Statutes, Title 15	  Chapter 1Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.2	Deputy Commissioner.	The Commissioner may, from time to time, by a writing approved by the Mayor and deposited with the City Auditor, designate, for such period as may be specified therein, one of his division engineers to be Deputy Commissioner. The Deputy Commissioner shall have authority, by virtue of such designation, to approve and sign bills, drafts, pay rolls, and requisitions, and to perform such other routine duties as the Commissioner may require, but shall not have authority to make any permanent appointments nor to make contracts, except in the absence of the Commissioner, and then only under a separate authorization under Subsection 5-5.29.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 151)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.29
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1134.4
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
	11-6.3	Use of Public Ways.	The Commissioner shall have the jurisdiction vested by statute in the Board of Street Commissioners in relation to the planting and removal of trees in the public ways and to the use of public ways for any temporary obstruction or projection in, under or over the same; but such jurisdiction shall only be exercised with the written approval of the Mayor in each instance. The Commissioner shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by statute on the Board of Street Commissioners in relation to the use of parts of public ways for the storage and sale of merchandise.  When establishing rules or regulations for the dates of temporary license periods for the use of public space for sidewalk cafes, the Commissioner shall make licenses available year-round.  However, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the Commissioner from imposing additional requirements on year-round licenses.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 46; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 152; Ord. 2009 c. 3)	11-6.4	Street Lighting.	The Commissioner shall have charge of all lamps established by the City Council and maintained at the expense of the City, of all lamps set up in parks, parkways or public grounds, and of all lamp-posts, posts or fixtures connected with such lamps, and shall set up and affix lamps in the streets; shall have the care and custody of all City property used or hereafter

Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1134.5
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	1134.6
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
acquired for the purpose of street lighting, and shall maintain and keep the same in good repair.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 153)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 7-4.7	11-6.5	Bridges.	The Commissioner shall have the care and management of all bridges which are used as highways, and are in whole or in part under the charge of the City; shall keep the railings and wearing surface in good order and shall remove all dirt, snow and ice from the sidewalks; shall keep all said bridges, or those parts thereof under his care, and the abutments, guards, draws and wharves thereof, clean and in good condition and repair; shall appoint drawtenders for the draws in bridges of which he has the care, and see that they properly perform their duties, and may remove them for such cause as he shall deem sufficient and shall assign in his order of removal. Each drawtender so appointed shall take charge by night and by day of the draw of which he is drawtender; shall require from the person in charge of a vessel applying to pass through the draw a true statement of the name, extreme width and draught of the vessel; shall determine the order in which vessels may pass through the draw; and may direct the placing of warping-lines, anchors, and cables, and the use of any warping apparatus provided by the City; shall cause the draw to be opened for the passage of vessels in accordance with the regulations of the Department of the Army; shall cause the draw to be closed with all possible expedition after a vessel has passed through, not permitting more than one vessel to pass through at one opening of the draw, except that, when the draw is open and the bridge is free from persons desiring to cross, he may, in his discretion, permit other vessels to pass through before causing the draw to be closed; and shall perform such additional duties as said Commissioner may require.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 154)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 11 § 30	11-6.6	Record of Sewer Construction.	The Commissioner shall keep a book in which he shall record the date of every order for 
constructing a sewer, the name of the contractor or builder constructing it, the date of commencing and the date of completing the work, and the cost of the sewer. He shall make and deliver to the Collector-Treasurer all bills for assessments as they become due.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 155)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 6-3.5Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.7	Sewer Plans.	The Commissioner shall keep a plan for every existing and every new sewer, showing its depth, breadth, mode of construction and general direction, and shall, from time to time, ascertain and insert on such plans all entries made into the sewers.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 156)Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.8	Notice of Sewer and Street Work.	The Commissioner shall, when about to build a new sewer or repair an old sewer, notify all abutters on that part of the line of said sewer when he proposes to do work, and afford them facilities for entering the sewer; and shall, when about to construct a new street, at least four (4) weeks before beginning work, and, when about to make a new surface of any street, at least two (2) weeks before beginning work, notify all departments and persons authorized to place any structure in such street, and require and see that all departments and persons having any work to be done in the streets so designated shall do all such work before the surface of such street is again prepared for and opened to public travel; and, after the completion of the work then done on such street, shall not, for 
	1135
11-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-6
one year thereafter, permit any department or person to disturb the surface of such street or way within the area of such previous disturbance, except in case of obvious necessity; and shall make a record of the permits issued in such cases in a book to be kept for that purpose.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 157)Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.9	Permits for Street Work; Conditions Thereof.	The Commissioner may issue permits to persons having authority in the premises to open, occupy, obstruct and use portions of the streets. Such permits shall specify the time, place, size and use of such opening, occupation, or obstruction, and shall be granted upon condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 5-5.30 of these ordinances, and upon the further conditions as follows:	a.	That the restoration of the paving or other surface of such streets shall be effected by the City as directed by the Commissioner, the work to be done by City employees or by contract or otherwise at his discretion, the standard, type and extent of the repairs necessary to effect such restoration to be determined by him and to be paid for by the person receiving the permit, such payment to be made in advance on the basis of the Commissioner’s estimate or during the progress or after the completion of the restoration as the Commissioner may elect.	b.	That the person receiving the permit shall place and maintain from the beginning of twilight, through the whole of every night, over or near the place so occupied, opened, obstructed or used, and over or near any dirt, gravel or other material placed in or near such place, a light or lights sufficient to protect travelers from injury; shall place and maintain a safe and convenient way, satisfactory to the Commissioner, for the use of foot travelers and for vehicles around or over such place; shall protect such trees as shall be designated by the Parks and 
Recreation Department in such manner as said Department shall specify; shall provide suitable sanitary accommodations for his employees; and shall deliver the coupon attached to the permit to an officer of the Police Force of said City on or before the expiration of the time fixed in the permit for completing the work, such coupon to be returned by said officer to the Public Works Department.	c.	That the Commissioner may detail an inspector, at the expense of the person receiving the permit, to supervise said opening, occupation and use and to see that the backfilling is properly done.	d.	That the Commissioner may require the person receiving the permit to enclose the place in the streets so opened, occupied or used, with a rail, fence or other guard as specified by the Commissioner.	e.	That the Commissioner shall require the person receiving the permit to maintain at the expense of such person as many Boston Police Officers on special duty (outside their regular tour of duty), as the Police Commissioner may determine necessary to protect the safety and general welfare of the public and to preserve the free circulation of traffic (but in no event less than one (1) Boston Police Officer). This clause shall not prohibit reimbursement of such person for such expense if a contract between such person and the City or any other person provides such reimbursement. It shall be the duty of the Public Works Commissioner to ascertain compliance of this section prior to issuance of the permit.	f.	The Commissioner shall require the person receiving the permit to maintain at the expense of such person an accessible path of travel which meets both Americans with Disabilities Act and Massachusetts Architectural Access Board requirements.	g.	The Commissioner shall require that the person receiving the permit ensures that all construction be in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the regulations of the Massachusetts Architectural Board.If any person having the authority in the premises to open, occupy, obstruct and use portions of the streets is exempt from obtaining a permit by the Commissioner, said person shall remain subject to subsections f. and g.
Rev. 2/18/09 Supp.8	1136
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
	Any violation of the above ordinance shall be punished by a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars.(Ord. 1966 c. 5; Ord. 1967 c. 4; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 21 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 158; Ord. 1976 c. 4; Ord. 1977 c. 6, c. 14; Ord. 2008 c. 11)Cross-reference:	St. T.4 c. 1; Ord. ss 7-1.3; ss 7-4.7	11-6.10	Permits to Enter Drains.	The Commissioner may issue such a permit to competent mechanics for the purpose of entering particular drains into public drains and sewers, on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-6.9, and in addition that the person 

Rev. 2/18/09 Supp.8	1136.1
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	Rev. 2/18/09 Supp. 8	1136.2
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
applying for the permit shall make connection of such drain with such sewer only in the manner shown on the back of the permit, and only in the presence of an inspector of the Sewer Division; shall have on the ground, when the inspector arrives to see the connection made, any slant, bend or curve to be used in making the connection; shall not cover up any work until inspected by one of such inspectors; shall not lay the drain in the same trench with a water pipe; shall not connect any exhaust from a steam engine, any blow-off from a steam boiler, or any other pipe for delivering steam or hot water, with the drain or sewer. The Commissioner shall in each drain permit specify the size, material and mode of construction of the particular drain, and the direction and grade for laying it.(Ord. 1960 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 159)Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.11	Permits to Obstruct Sidewalks.	The Commissioner may issue such a permit to a responsible person for the purpose of raising and lowering goods and merchandise into and from buildings, on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 5-5.28, and in addition that the person applying for the permit shall maintain, during the whole time the work is in progress, good and sufficient barriers across the sidewalk, from the wall of the building to or from which the goods or merchandise are so raised out to the curbstone or edge of the sidewalk, on each side of said goods or merchandise, sufficient to protect travelers from injury or danger; and shall not encumber the sidewalk for more than fifteen (15) minutes at a time for such work.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 11; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 160)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.28
	11-6.12	Permits for Coal Holes.	The Commissioner shall issue such a permit to any person authorized by the Public Improvement Commission to place a coal hole, vault or coal slide under a street, or a cover thereto, on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-6.9, and in addition that the person applying for the permit shall make the underground structure of suitable construction satisfactory to the Commissioner, and shall pay such fee as may be prescribed by ordinance; shall make the opening of a coal hole or coal slide circular, and not more than eighteen (18") inches in diameter, and furnish a cover therefor of iron, made with a rough upper surface, and with three (3) or more iron rods or legs at least two (2') feet in length, fitting closely to the side of the opening, and projecting downwards from the underside of the cover, and so constructed that, while the cover can be lifted perpendicularly, it cannot be tipped or easily removed from the opening.(Reg. Bd. of Ald. October 19, 1863; Rev. Ord. 1890 c. 18 § 8; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 49; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 12; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 161)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 8-7.1	11-6.13	Permits to Move Buildings.	The Commissioner shall issue such a permit to a building mover actually engaged in the business, for the purpose of moving a building through the streets, on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-6.9; provided, that an application for such permit, describing the location from and to which, and the route over which, the building is to be moved, the length, width and height of the building, and the principal material of its exterior and roof, and accompanied by the written consent of the Building Commissioner to the placing of the building on the lot proposed, shall be first made to the Commissioner. Whenever it appears that the moving of a building will encumber the tracks of any railroad corporation, a public hearing shall be given by the Commissioner upon the subject before such permit is issued.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 50; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 162)
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1137
11-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-6
	11-6.14	Permits for Laying Wires, Rails, Pipes and Conduits.	The Commissioner shall, when authorized thereto by an order of the Public Improvement Commission, issue such a permit to a responsible person for the purpose of laying, maintaining and using wires, railway tracks or rails in the streets, or wires, pipes or conduits under the surface thereof, on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-6.9, and in addition that the person applying for the permit shall, whenever requested so to do by the Mayor, furnish in his conduits for wires accommodations free of charge for all wires belonging to, or to be used by, the City; shall remove the conduits and wires whenever directed, and not until directed, so to do by an order of the public improvement commission approved by the Mayor; and shall not disturb or interfere with any wires, pipes, or sewers lawfully laid in such street or connected therewith.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 51; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 163)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 8 § 500	11-6.15	Permits for Poles.	The Commissioner shall, when authorized thereto by an order of the Public Improvement Commission, issue such a permit to a responsible person for the purpose of placing and maintaining in the streets poles for the support of wires, on condition the terms of which shall be those stated in Subsection 11-6.9, and in addition that the person applying for the permit shall keep the poles well painted and in good condition, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner; shall place the wires on the poles not less than twenty-one feet from the ground; shall keep the name of the person owning the pole distinctly painted on the crossbars used and occupied by him on the pole, and also on the pole at a point not less than six (6') feet nor more than eight (8') feet from the ground; shall allow the Departments of the City the exclusive use of the lowest crossbar of each pole, free of all charge, for the purpose of placing wires thereon; shall not suffer or permit any other person to place or keep wires on the poles, or upon the fixtures thereto affixed, without permission being first obtained in writing from the Public Improvement Commission; shall not remove any pole erected under the order until, and shall remove any pole when, directed by the Public Improvement Commission so to do; and that on the violation of any term of
these conditions the Commissioner shall remove the poles at the expense of the person owning them.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 51; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 15; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 164)	11-6.16	Bonds Required Before Delivery of Permits.	The Commissioner shall not deliver any such permit to any person for the applicant therefor until he has received from such person a certificate that a copy of the permit entered in a book kept for the purpose, is a correct copy of the permit he receives, and the applicant, unless an employee of the City applying for a permit for public work, has given a bond in the case of permits under Subsections 11-6.9, 11-6.10, 11-6.11, 11-6.12, and 11-6.13, of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars, and under Subsections 11-6.14 and 11-6.15, of twenty thousand ($20,000.00) dollars, each bond, with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Commissioner, conditioned upon the faithful observance of the conditions and specifications of each and every permit thereafter issued on his application by the Commissioner; and the Commissioner may at any time require a new bond, which shall be considered a strengthening bond, unless the sureties on the former bond or bonds are expressly released from their liability by vote of the City Council. No bond shall be required of any person to open a public street for the purpose of planting a tree therein if such person has been duly authorized by the proper municipal authorities to plant trees in such street.  No bond shall be required of any person to occupy a street for the purpose of standing a moving truck at curb while loading and unloading contents of a residence or a business as defined by City of Boston Code, Ordinances, Chapter XVIII, subsection 18-1.16, paragraph 8A.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 16; Ord. 1964 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 21 § 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 165; Ord. 2011 c. 4)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 6-3.4; Ord. ss 7-4.8	11-6.17	Permits Prohibited.	The Commissioner shall not issue any such permit to a person who has within twelve (12) months previous to his application violated or failed to observe the conditions or specifications of any such permit.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 17; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 166)
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1138
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
	11-6.18	Indemnity for City.	Every owner of an estate hereafter maintaining any cellar, vault, coal hole or other excavation under the part of the street which is adjacent to, or part of, his estate, shall do so only on condition that such maintenance shall be considered as an agreement on his part to hold the City harmless from any claims for damage to himself or the occupants of such estate resulting from gas, sewage or water leaking into such excavation or upon such estate; and every such owner and every person maintaining a post, pole or other structure in a street, or a wire, pipe, conduit or other structure under a street, shall do so only on condition that such maintenance shall be considered as an agreement on his part with the City to keep the same and the covers thereof in good repair and condition at all times during his ownership and to indemnify and save harmless the City against any and all damages, costs, expenses or compensation which it may sustain or be required to pay, by reason of such excavation or structure being under or in the street, or being out of repair during his ownership, or by reason of any cover of the same being out of repair or unfastened during his ownership.(304 Mass. 18; Reg. Bd. of Ald. October 19, 1863; Rev. Ord. 1890 c. 18 § 12; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 18; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 167)	11-6.19	Appurtenant Structures in the Public Way.	The term “Appurtenant structures in the public way” shall include, but not be limited to, poles, hydrants, surface access to gates, valves and meters, manhole frames, pullbox frames, catch basin inlet frames, signs, shelters and any structural supports approved by the Public Improvement Commission.(Ord. 1983 c. 2)	11-6.20	Responsibility for Condition and Maintenance of Pavement.	Any person, corporation, trust, partnership, governmental body, board, commission, authority, agency, or body politic and corporate who occupies the public or private ways of the City of Boston with proper permit from the Public Works Department or otherwise, as a condition of such occupation, shall be responsible and liable for the maintenance and 
restoration of all pavement within thirty (30") inches of any and all of the appurtenant structures where they intersect the surface of the public way, roadway or sidewalk, and shall maintain said areas and repair any defect in its entirety which lies wholly or in part in the said area. Defects shall include, but not be limited to: pot holes, chuckholes, frost heaves, cracking, spalling, settling, delaminating or patch repair. Repairs and restorations made by the above-mentioned parties shall be made in accordance with the specifications of, and under permit from the Boston Public Works Department, and at no cost to the City.(Ord. 1983 c. 2)	11-6.21	Indemnity for City: Pavement Defects.	Each person, corporation, trust, partnership, governmental board, commission, authority, agency or body politic and corporate, occupying the public or private way, as a condition of such occupation, shall forever indemnify and save harmless the City of Boston against all claims and demands of all persons for damages, costs, expenses or compensation for, on account of, or in any way growing out of, or the result of any surface defect occurring wholly or in part within the area described in Subsection 11-6.20.	When the City of Boston constructs or reconstructs the pavement adjacent to any of the above-mentioned structures, such action shall not abrogate the responsibility of the above-mentioned parties.(Ord. 1983 c. 2)	11-6.22	Temporary Repairs on Private Ways.	a.	Petition for Temporary Repair. Under the authority of Chapter 693, of 1977, appearing as General Laws, Chapter 40, Section 6N, the City of Boston shall, when necessity dictates, cause temporary repairs to be made on private ways which have been opened to public use for six (6) years or more. Upon the filing of a petition signed by owners of fifty (50%) percent or more of the property parcels abutting a private way, the Commission of Public Works or qualified designee shall inspect and determine what temporary relief measures may be taken to fill depressions to make the roadway satisfactory for vehicular use.
	1139
11-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-6
	b.	City to Assume Cost of Temporary Repairs. Temporary repairs shall be at City expense, but only include the filling of holes and depressions with sand, gravel, cinders, or other suitable materials and shall not include the resurfacing or permanent construction of private ways.	c.	Cost of Resurfacing or Permanent Patching. At the request of owners of a majority of property lots abutting a private way, the Public Works Commissioner or designee may arrange for resurfacing or permanent patching of depressions in an existing paved way on a shared cost basis. The extent of such work shall be agreed to in advance by owners, who collectively will be assessed half the costs of such work.	d.	Apportionment of Charges of Permanent Repair. Betterments or charges will be apportioned on the ratio of frontage owned on such private way. Taxpaying owners may pay cost in cash or have them assessed as betterments over a period of years. Tax-exempt properties will be charged for their respective share of work. The Public Works Commissioner shall supervise such work and may require that present or potential drainage problems be resolved as part of the undertaking.(Ord. 1979 c. 10, §§ 1-3)	11-6.23	Responsibility for Area Surrounding Tracks and Rails.	All persons, corporations, trusts, partnerships, governmental bodies, boards, commissions, authorities, agencies or bodies politic and corporate who occupy the public way with tracks or rails for any purpose, as a condition of such occupation, shall be responsible and liable for the maintenance and restoration of all pavement within twenty-four (24") inches of outside rails, within the limits of the tracks itself and the area between two (2) sets of tracks where two (2) sets of tracks exist together. The above-mentioned parties shall maintain said areas and repair any defect in its entirety which lies wholly or in part in the said area. Defects shall include, but not be limited to: pot holes, chuckholes, frost heaves, cracking, spalling, settling, delaminating or patch repair. Repairs shall be made according to the specifications of the Public Works Department, City of Boston and at no cost to said City.(Ord. 1983 c. 2)
	11-6.24	Indemnity for City; Tracks and Rails.	The above-mentioned parties, as a condition of such occupation, shall forever indemnify and save harmless the City of Boston against all claims and demands of all persons for damages, costs, expenses or compensation for, on account of or in any way growing out of, or as the result of any surface defect occurring wholly or in part within the area described in Subsection 11-6.23.	When the City of Boston, constructs or reconstructs, repairs or repaves the above-mentioned pavement, this action shall not abrogate the responsibility of the above-mentioned parties.(Ord. 1983 c. 2)	11-6.25	Capital Improvement.	The above-mentioned parties are required to cooperate with any capital improvement desired by the City of Boston in that they must repave or reconstruct the above-mentioned areas, to Public Works Department standards, to insure the overall continuity of the project.(Ord. 1983 c. 2)	11-6.26	Guards for Steps and Entrances.	The Commissioner shall require every person who maintains an entrance on a level with or below, or a flight of steps descending immediately from or near, the line of the street, which is not otherwise safely guarded to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, to enclose such entrance or steps with a permanent iron railing on each side at least three (3') feet high from the top of the sidewalk or pavement, and to provide the same with a gate opening inwardly, or with two (2) iron chains across the entrance way, one near the top and the other half way from the ground to the top of the railing, and to keep such gates or chains closed during the night, unless the entrance or steps are sufficiently lighted to prevent accident.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 19; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 168)	11-6.27	Excavations Under Sidewalk.	The Commissioner shall close and fill up, at the expense of the owner of the premises abutting on a 
	1140
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
sidewalk, any excavation under such sidewalk, whether constructed under a permit or not, which has not been closed and filled up within five (5) days after the Public Improvement Commission has ordered the owner so to do.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 52; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 20; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 169)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 8-7.1; Statutes, Title 14 § 155	11-6.28	Record of Notices of Defects.	The Commissioner shall keep a record of the notices of defects in streets sent to him, with the name of the person giving the notice and the time when given, and shall without delay cause the locality of the alleged defect to be examined, and, if the defect is of such a character as to endanger the safety of public travel, shall do whatever may be necessary to protect the public from injury by the defect, and shall cause it to be immediately repaired.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 21; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 170)	11-6.29	Water Supply.	The Commissioner shall have the care and control of all property acquired or held by the City for the purposes of its water supply; shall maintain the same in good order and condition; shall use and operate the same and furnish all supplies required therefor; shall purchase, lay, maintain and test all meters, pipes and other fixtures and appliances necessary for supplying water to the inhabitants of the City, including the placing of drinking fountains and supplying the same with cold water; shall take all measures necessary to protect and preserve the purity of the water; shall exercise a constant supervision over the use of water; shall have control of the water supply and may in a public emergency shut the water off and let it on at such times as he deems necessary; shall, with the approval of the Mayor, from time to time determine and establish the rates for the use of water; shall, whenever a water rate has remained unpaid for thirty (30) days after its due date, send notice to the owner or tenant of the premises to which the water is supplied, that the water rate has become a lien on the premises and that if the water rate continues to remain unpaid, the water will be shut off; shall, if a water rate is not paid within ten (10) days 
after sending the notice herein provided for, shut off the water from the particular service unless such action is inconsistent with law or unless, in the opinion of a physician designated by the Commissioner, the shutting off of such water would endanger the life of any person; shall not let on again water shut off for nonpayment of a water rate until a service charge of two ($2.00) dollars, in addition to the amount of the unpaid account, is paid except where the law requires the letting on again of the water without the payment of the unpaid account. However, the Commissioner may, in his discretion, waive the payment of such two ($2.00) dollar service charge where the unpaid account is less than twenty ($20.00) dollars. The provisions relative to the shutting off and letting on of water shall apply when two (2) or more persons take water from the same service pipe although one or more may have been paid the amount due from him or them. No charge shall be made for sending the notice herein provided for.(Ord. 1941 c. 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 22; CBC 1975 Ord. Tl1 § 171)Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.30	Water Bills.	The Commissioner shall, consistently with the ordinances, make contracts for the sale of water, and send out bills therefor, which shall be payable to the Collector-Treasurer; shall provide that bills for specific supplies of water shall be due and payable in advance and actually paid before the water is let on, that bills for water furnished and measured by meter shall not be less than eight ($8.00) dollars during any consecutive twelve (12) months’ period and shall be due and payable on the due date specified on each bill rendered, and that the due dates thus specified shall be so established as to require payments at least as often as semiannually. All contracts shall stipulate that an omission to send or a failure to receive a water bill under this section or a notice under the preceding section shall not affect the validity either of the water 
	1141
11-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-6
rate or of the proceedings for its enforcement or collection.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 53; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 23; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 172)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 4 § 1; Ord. ss 6-3.5Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.31	Water Income.	The Commissioner may designate one of his subordinates to be the head of the Water Division, who shall, if the Commissioner so directs, make abatements of charges for water where improperly assessed and exercise the powers of the Commissioner relative to the shutting off of water for nonpayment of a water rate and the waiver of the service charge for the shutting off and letting on of water; who shall also receive all money paid for service charges for the shutting off and letting on of water and all money paid or deposited on account of main, service, fire, elevator, motor and other pipes and the laying thereof and for repair work; shall give a receipt in behalf of the City therefor; shall pay, from the money so received, the amount found by him to be due the person paying any such money, as excess over the amount due the City; and shall, on or before the fifth day of every month, pay over the money in his possession due the City, and account for all money so received by him since the last accounting, as provided in Subsection 5-5.24.(Ord. 1930 c. 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 24; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 173)Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.32	Water Meters.	The Commissioner shall, from time to time, as he deems necessary, apply, remove and test water 
meters and maintain the same in good condition; shall record, in a book kept for the purpose, a statement of the style, size, number of each meter, date when purchased, location, date when set, reading at such date, date when taken out, the reason therefor, the reading at such date, a detailed statement of test and percentage of errors shown, and the reading and date when reset; also a description of all defects and repairs of such meters.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 25; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 174)Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.33	Shutting Off Water.	The Commissioner, whenever the water has been shut off from any premises because the bill for water has not been paid and there is a change in the ownership of the premises, may let the water on again without waiting for the payment of the amount due from the former owner. In case of contracts for specific supplies he shall shut off the water as soon as the contract has been carried out.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 26; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 175)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 4 § 1Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.34	Record of Water Takers.	The Commissioner shall keep suitable books, in which shall be entered the names of all persons who take water, the kind of building in which it is taken, the name of the street and the number thereon, the 
	1142
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
nature of the use, the number of taps, and the rate assessed.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 27; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 176)Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.35	Regulations for Water Takers.	The Commissioner shall cause the following regulations to be printed on every bill for water, which regulations shall constitute a part of the contract with every taker of water furnished by the City:	a.	Regulations.		1.	Every water taker shall pay the rates for water furnished on his application within the time and at the place specified in the bills therefor; shall, at his own expense, keep the service pipes within his premises, including any area or vault beneath the sidewalk, in good order and repair and protected from frost; shall not allow the water to leak away or run to waste; shall not - unless he pays the rates established therefor or takes water by meter rates - use water from a hose; shall not use water from a hose in any case, except during such days and hours and in such manner as the Commissioner of Public Works may from time to time specify; shall not make any changes in the pipes or water fixtures under the street or within his premises, unless such change is approved by the Commissioner; shall not conceal the purpose for which the water is used; shall allow the Commissioner and persons authorized by him to enter the premises supplied with water, examine the fixtures, and ascertain the quantity of water used, the manner of use, and whether there is unnecessary waste; and shall indemnify the city for all damages it may sustain or be required to pay in consequence of any injury resulting from any violation of these regulations by the water taker.	2.	Every water taker must stop the use of water for any purpose when required to do so by the Commissioner of Public Works and must guard 
against collapse of a boiler and other injuries liable to result from want of water, as the water is liable to be shut off at any time without notice.	3.	No water taker shall, except in accordance with a written permit from the Commissioner of Public Works or in case of fire in the neighborhood, allow water to be taken from his premises, or use water for any purpose other than those for which he pays, or open any hydrant attached to the water pipes of the City.	4.	No water taker shall demand or be entitled to any abatement of his water rates for any year on account of the premises being vacated, unless they are vacated before the first day of January and notice thereof is given to the Commissioner of Public Works before the first day of February of such year; nor shall any water taker demand or be entitled to any abatement of rates, compensation, or damage on account of the shutting off, or the stopping of the use, of water for any cause.	5.	The Commissioner of Public Works shall equip with water meters all new services installed; shall, if a water taker refuses to allow a water meter to be placed on his premises, cause the water to be shut off from the same; may without notice, cause the water to be shut off from any premises or require the use of water for any purpose designated by him to be stopped; and may, if any water taker, whether supplied through an independent service pipe or a service pipe used in common with another, violates any of these regulations, cause the water to be shut off from all premises supplied by such pipe until satisfied that the regulations will be observed and that all amounts due for water have been paid to the Collector-Treasurer, together with such further sum, 
	1143
11-6	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-6
not exceeding ten ($10.00) dollars, as the Collector-Treasurer may require.(St. 1907 c. 524; St. 1909 c. 177; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 54; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 28; CBC 1975 Ord, T11 § 177)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 4 § 1; Ord. ss 6-3.5; Statutes,	  Title 14 § 172Editor’s Note:	The water works system and the sewer works	  system of the Department of Public Works	  were abolished and the duties transferred to	  the Boston Water and Sewer Commission by	  Ch. 436 of the Acts of 1977.	11-6.36	Engineering Work.	Except as otherwise provided by statute, the Commissioner of Public Works shall have full charge of all engineering work of every nature and description connected with all public works and all public improvements, and shall make such surveys, plans, estimates, statements and descriptions, and take such levels, as any officer of the city may need in the discharge of his duties, and shall have the custody of all surveys and plans relating to the laying out, relocating, altering, widening, constructing, making specific repairs on, and discontinuing public ways and alleys.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 55; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 29; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 178)	11-6.37	Inspection and Measurement of Public Work.	The Commissioner shall, by himself or by his duly authorized agents, inspect and measure all public work done under his direction by any Department by contract or otherwise, and the City Auditor, in case any bill or estimate for such work is presented to him for allowance, may require from the Commissioner a certificate for such bill or estimate stating whether the materials have been furnished or the work done in accordance with proper engineering standards or in accordance with the terms of the contract for such work.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 30; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 179)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 4 § 1; Ord. ss 6-1.4
	11-6.38	Discontinuance of Public Work.	The Commissioner shall have authority to order any public work, whether done by a Department or under contract or otherwise, to be discontinued, reconstructed or removed, whenever in his opinion such work fails in any manner to comply with or fulfill the terms, conditions, specifications and requirements of any such contract or agreement, or fails in his opinion to conform with proper engineering standards.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 31; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 180)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 4 § 1	11-6.39	Charge Against Appropriations.	Any expense incurred by the Commissioner in carrying out any of the provisions of this section, except as provided for by the appropriation for the Department of Public Works, shall be charged to the several appropriations under which the works are authorized or paid for, upon requisition of the Commissioner.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 32; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 181)	11-6.40	Division of Engineers; Qualifications.	The Commissioner shall divide the Public Works Department from time to time into an Engineering Division and such other Divisions as the Commissioner shall adjudge necessary for the proper conduct of the Department. Each division shall be in charge of a civil engineer of recognized standing in his profession, who shall be an expert in the duties which may devolve upon him, and shall devote his whole time to the work.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 56; Ord. 1960 c. 7; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 33; CBC 1975 T11 § 182)	11-6.41	Certificate of Qualifications of Engineers.	In appointing an engineer to take charge of a Division of the Department the Commissioner shall certify that he is a civil engineer of recognized standing in the profession, that in the Commissioner’s opinion he is an expert in the work which shall devolve upon him, that he is a person specially fitted 
	1144
11-6	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-6
by education, training or experience to perform the duties which may devolve upon him, and that the appointment is made solely in the interest of the City, such certificate to be filed with the City Clerk and to be open to public inspection.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 34; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 183)	11-6.42	Annual Report.	The Commissioner shall, in his annual report, include a statement of the repairs and expenditures on each street and each bridge under his charge, of the number of times each draw of a bridge has been operated for the passage of vessels, of the number of vessels laden with cargo that have passed through each draw, of the number of water takers and the purposes for which the water is taken, of the number and kind of water meters installed during the previous year, of the number and kind of water meters in use, of the number of cases where the water has been shut off, and of the number and amount of abatements which have been made during the preceding year on water rates.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 57; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 21 § 35; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 184)	11-6.43	Vehicles Interfering With the Removal of Snow.	For the purpose of plowing or removing snow from a street the Commissioner of Public Works or such subordinate or subordinates (as defined in Section 1-1, a, 9.) as he may from time to time designate may remove, or cause to be removed, to some convenient place, including in such term a public garage and an open-air parking space, any vehicle in such street interfering with the plowing or removal of snow therein, except a vehicle owned by the Commonwealth or a political subdivision thereof or by the United States. At the time of such removal, a record in duplicate of the registration number of every vehicle removed under this subsection, a general description of such vehicle, the date and time of removal, and the place from which as well as the place to which the vehicle is removed, shall be made by or for the Commissioner, who shall keep one copy on file and forthwith send the other copy to the Police Commissioner.
	The owner of every vehicle removed under this subsection shall be liable for the cost of such removal and of the storage charges, if any, resulting therefrom; provided that the cost of removal shall not exceed twelve ($12.00) dollars and that the cost of storage shall not exceed fifty ($.50) cents for the first hour (or fraction thereof), or ten ($.10) cents for each subsequent hour (or fraction thereof), of storage. (Ord. 1945 c. 3; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 84; Ord. 1962 c. 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 21 § 37; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 185; Ord. 1977 c. 12)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 40 § 21 c. 1.16	11-6.44	Vehicles Interfering with the Collection of Garbage and Refuse.	For the purpose of facilitating the collection of garbage and refuse, the Commissioner of Public Works or such subordinate or subordinates (as defined in Section 1-1a,9.) as he may from time to time designate may remove, or cause to be removed, to some convenient place in the City, including in such term a public garage, from any portion of a public way in the City or from any private way therein open to public use, any vehicle parked contrary to a sign within one hundred (100') feet banning parking at such time and place, except a vehicle owned by the Commonwealth or a political subdivision thereof or by the United States. At the time of such removal, a record in duplicate of the registration number of every vehicle removed under this subsection, a general description of such vehicle, the date and time of removal, and the place from which as well as the place to which the vehicle is removed shall be made by or for the Commissioner, who shall keep one copy on file and forthwith send the other copy to the Police Commissioner.	The owner of every vehicle removed under this subsection shall be liable for the cost of such removal and of the storage charges, if any, resulting therefrom; provided that the cost of removal shall not exceed twelve ($12.00) dollars and that the cost of storage shall not exceed fifty ($.50) cents for the first hour (or fraction thereof), or ten ($.10) cents for each subsequent hour (or fraction thereof), of storage. (Ord. 1972 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 186; Ord. 1977 c. 13)Cross-reference:	St. T. 11 § 258
	1145
11-7	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-7
11-7	PROPERTY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.Editor’s Note:	Section 3 of Ordinance 1994 c. 6 amended the	  name of the Real Property Department to the	  Property Management Department.	11-7.1	Property Management Board.	a.	Appointment; Term; Compensation. There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Property Management Department, which shall be under the charge of a Board, known as the Property Management Board, consisting of an officer, known as the Commissioner of Property Management, appointed by the Mayor, who shall be Chairman of the Board, an Officer, known as the Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, appointed by the Mayor, and three (3) other officers, known as Associate Commissioners of Property Management, appointed by the Mayor. The Commissioner of Property Management and the Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall each be appointed for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected and shall devote their whole time to the work. As the term of any Associate Commissioner in office when this ordinance takes effect, or of any subsequent Associate Commissioner, expires, his successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of three (3) years. Any vacancy in the office of an Associate Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. The Associate Commissioners of Property Management shall receive no compensation for their services as such Associate Commissioners.	b.	Duties of the Board. The Property Management Board shall have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed on the Board of Real Estate Commissioners by Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943, as amended, and by Chapter 474 of the Acts of 1946, as amended. The Property Management Board shall also have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by statute on the Board of Street Commissioners in relation to the abatement of taxes.	The Property Management Board shall divide the Property Management Department from time to time into such subdivisions as said Board shall adjudge necessary for the proper conduct of the Department.
	Notwithstanding the provisions of any existing law to the contrary, the Commissioner of Property Management shall cause to be placed all future lease agreements with lessees of municipality owned parking garages a provision for police security of patrons and their property. The determination as to the amount of police security shall be made by the Police Commissioner. Any police security so provided shall be performed by off-duty Boston Police Officers. In no event shall there be less than one off-duty Police Officer employed in each such garage. The hours of work of such off-duty Police Officers shall be determined by the Police Commissioner.(Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 58; Rev. Ord. 1961 e. 22 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 250; Ord. 1981 c. 17; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)Cross-reference:	St. 1943 c. 434; St. 1946 c. 474; Ord. ss 8-7.1;	  St. T.5 § 102	11-7.2	Committee on Foreclosed Real Estate.	The Mayor shall appoint from the Property Management Board a Committee consisting of the Chairman and two (2) other members to be known as the Committee on Foreclosed Real Estate. Said Committee shall have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed by law on the Committee on Foreclosed Real Estate established under Section 4 of Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 251; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)Cross-reference:	St. 1943 c. 434 § 4	11-7.3	Powers and Duties of Commissioner; Superintendent of Markets.	The Commissioner of Property Management shall have the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed on the Chairman of the Board of Real Estate Commissioners by Chapter 434 of the Acts of 1943, as amended, and shall exclusively have the powers, and perform the duties, of a Department Head with respect to the appointment, suspension, discharge, compensation and indemnification of subordinates for the Property Management Department (and the several officers thereof), and including also a Superintendent of Markets, who, 
	1146
11-7	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-7
subject to the supervision and control of the Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, shall have the charge and control of Faneuil-Hall Market and Faneuil-Hall Market limits; shall preserve order therein; shall make such changes, and place or allow to be placed in said market such pipes, drains, and other appliances, as he may deem proper; and shall take and forthwith destroy any article of food which in his opinion is diseased, unwholesome, or tainted, and is kept for sale within such market limits. Said Superintendent may assign stands within such market limits for the sale of provisions and other articles, and may, at the expense of the owner thereof, remove from one place or stand to another within such limits, or to, and to be kept in, a proper storage place until the expense is paid, any merchandise, vehicle or animal, not under the charge of any person, or not immediately so removed on the direction of said Superintendent or his deputies.(St. 1943 c. 78; Ord. 1946 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 252; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3; Ord. 1995 c. 3 § 2)Cross-reference:	St. 1943 c. 434; St. 1945 c. 652 § 2A.; 	  St. 1951 c. 633 § 3	11-7.4	Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, Powers and Duties.	The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care, custody and management of, shall make all repairs in and upon, and shall keep in repair the furniture of, all buildings and parts of buildings belonging to or hired by the City, not wholly in charge of one Department, or for which no other provision is made by statute or ordinance, whether the same are used for City or County purposes, and may, with the approval of the Mayor, hire such buildings or rooms as may be required for such purposes; shall have the care and control of the City Hall and the City Hall Annex; shall have the care and custody of the flags belonging to the City Hall and to the Old State House; shall display the national flag upon the City Hall on every day, except Sundays, weather permitting; shall have charge of all City property in the armories provided by the City for the militia; and shall cause to be included in the annual report of the Property Management Board a statement of the kind and amount of City property in such armories, of all buildings belonging to or used by the 
City, and of the land and appurtenances thereof, of the condition of such buildings and land, and the nature and amount of the expenditures that have been made during the preceding year relative thereto. In exercising care and control of City Hall and all buildings belonging to or hired by the City, the Assistant Commissioner shall provide suitable space no later than January 1, 1989 to be used as a child care center for children of City employees.(Ord. July 1, 1850; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 253; Ord. 1987 c. 17; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 1-2.4; 1-2.5	11-7.5	Assistant Commissioner of Property Management to Have Custody of Faneuil Hall.	The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care, custody and management of Faneuil Hall, shall, weather permitting, every day except Sundays, display the national flag upon the building in which said hall is located, shall, upon vote of the City Council approved by the Mayor and payment of the charge prescribed by subsection 18-1.8, paragraph 4., permit the use of said Hall, and shall hold all persons signing the application for such permit jointly and severally liable for all damage done to said Hall at or in connection with the meeting for which such permit is granted.(Ord. 1956 c. 7 § 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 254; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)Cross-reference:	Ord. Section 1-3; Ord. Section 16-21	11-7.6	Lease of Stalls by Assistant Commissioner of Property Management.	The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall lease, from time to time, by instruments approved as to form by the Corporation Counsel and approved in writing by the Mayor, the stalls, cellars, and second floor in Faneuil Hall Market for terms of up to ten (10) years at market rates as determined by procedures customarily accepted by the appraising profession as valid and as approved by City Council and upon such other terms and conditions as may be approved by the Corporation Counsel and the Mayor.  The Assistant Commissioner of Property 
Rev. 1/30/04 Supp. 3	1147
11-7	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-7
Management may delegate his authority hereunder, provided said delegation is approved as aforesaid.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 255; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3; Ord. 2003 c. 22)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-7.4; Statutes T4 § 8; Ord. ss 5-8.1	11-7.7	Care of Dillaway House by Assistant Commissioner of Property Management.	The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care, custody and management of the Dillaway House, so called, in the Roxbury district of the City, may establish rules and regulations for the use and preservation of said house as a historical relic of the Revolutionary War, and may, upon vote of the City Council approved by the Mayor, let or lease the whole or any part of said house to a historical society or other association organized for historical purposes.(Ord. 1934 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 7; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 256; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)	11-7.8	Designation of Ward-Rooms.	The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall designate, in the places named in orders of the City Council, a suitable room to be used for a wardroom for the ward in which it is situated. If any such room cannot be so used at any time, said Assistant Commissioner shall provide accommodation elsewhere for any public meeting in such ward for which he shall issue a permit.(St. 1914 c. 630; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 257; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 54 § 1; Ord. ss 2-3.2; Ord. ss 16-21	11-7.9	Assistant Commissioner to Have Custody of Ward-Rooms.	The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management shall have the care and custody of, shall determine the use of, and provide for opening, closing, lighting, and heating the ward-rooms; shall frame and keep in some conspicuous place therein a copy of this and the following section, and as soon as a list or a revised list of voters in a ward is prepared by the Election Commissioners shall keep posted or 
hung up a copy thereof in the ward-room of the ward in such a manner as to be readily accessible to the public, and such copies shall be altered, revised or removed only under the direction of the Election Commissioners or said Assistant Commissioner.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 258; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-3.1	11-7.10	Permits for Ward-Rooms; Revocation, Conditions.	The Assistant Commissioner of Property Management, when a written application (containing a copy of the call for a meeting notifying all persons who may be present that it will be subject to the provisions of this section) is made to him by not less than five (5) legal voters of a ward for the use of a ward-room for the purpose of holding such a meeting, and when he is paid such sum of money as will in his opinion be sufficient to defray the expense of opening, lighting, heating, and closing the ward-room during the time specified in the permit, may issue a permit for the use of such ward-room, which permit may at any time be revoked by the Mayor. Said Assistant Commissioner shall specify in the permit the time and purpose of the meeting, and that the meeting will be subject to the following provisions, viz.: Only legal voters in the ward in which such meeting is held, and to whom no objection is made by the majority of such applicants as are present or by the presiding officer of such meeting, shall mark or vote, or remain at such meeting, and the members of the police force present shall keep the peace at such meeting, obey the lawful orders of, and remove such persons as shall be designated by, the majority of such applicants as are present, or after the election of a presiding officer of the meeting, such persons as shall be designated by such presiding officer. Said Assistant Commissioner shall request the Police Commissioner to detail police sufficient to enforce such provisions.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 22 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 259; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)	11-7.11	Allotment of Spaces Within City Hall Garage.	Notwithstanding any other provision of ordinance, the Property Management Board shall 
Rev. 1/30/04 Supp. 3	1148
11-7	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-7
make available not less than twelve (12) spaces for the parking of automobiles within the garage at City Hall for the exclusive use of the City Council or members of its staff as such spaces may be assigned by the City Council. The remaining spaces in said garage shall be available for the use of other City officials as may be assigned by the Mayor.(Ord. 1981 c. 1; Ord. 1994 c. 6 § 3)	11-7.12	Prompt Release of Information in Cases of Stranger Sexual Assault.	a.	The Boston Police Department, as a policy, shall make timely dissemination of information to the public and media concerning stranger sexual assaults or attempts to commit such assaults.	b.	Any information released shall be limited to standards prescribed below, shall be prepared by the Commanding Officer of the Sexual Assault Unit or official designated by the Police Commissioner; and shall only be released by the Police Commissioner, a designated official or member of the Police Department authorized to deal with the press.	c.	Information on sexual assaults or attempts or patterns of assaults released to the public and media shall be provided only in writing.	d.	Only the following information may, at the discretion of the Commanding Officer of the Sexual Assault Unit, be released:		1.	Type of crime (classification to be determined by the department); date of assault; approximate time of attack; location of assault; arrest, if any; description of perpetrator, only if the investigation of such assault(s) will not be compromised by its release and only if the description is detailed enough to be helpful to the public.		2.	The above information shall be released only if it meets the following two criteria: (1) the victim’s identity must not become known, either directly or indirectly as a result of the release of this information; and (2) only information necessary to alert the public of a potential threat will be provided.		3.	This policy shall be reviewed annually, or whenever deemed necessary, by members of the appropriate designated officers to evaluate its effectiveness and address any problems or deficiencies.(Ord. 1993 c. 11 §§ 1-4)
	11-7.13	Transfer of Functions Between the Public Facilities Department and the Property Management Department.	a.	Pursuant to St. 1953, c. 473, the powers and duties of the Property Management Department’s Property Division, created by the Property Management Board under the authority of St. 1943, c. 434 are hereby transferred to the Public Facilities Department, provided, however, that the powers conferred by St. 1946, c. 474 and the functions related to public off-street parking facilities shall be retained within the Property Management Board.	b.	Pursuant to St. 1953, c. 473, the Alterations and Repair Unit within the Construction and Repair Division of the Public Facilities Department, and the functions and duties of the Enforcement and Communications Programs of said Department are hereby transferred to the Property Management Department.	c.	As provided in St. 1909, c. 486, as amended, every person holding an office or position subject to the civil service law and rules shall, if the office or position is abolished hereby, be reappointed without examination or registration to a similar office or position with similar status in the Public Facilities Department or the Property Management Department, as appropriate, and shall upon such reappointment retain all rights to retirement with pension that shall have or would have accrued, and that person’s services shall be deemed continuous to the same extent as if this reorganization had not taken place.(Ord. 1994 c. 6 §§ 1, 2, 4)	11-7.14	City Hall Plaza, Rental of.	The Commissioner of Property Management, who has care custody and control of City Hall Plaza, shall have the authority to execute short-term leases of space on City Hall Plaza for various events through advertised requests for proposals. Prior to issuing the request for proposal the Commissioner of Property Management shall obtain an appraisal of fair market value from a professional appraiser. All such leases shall be approved as to form by Corporation Counsel and approved in writing by the Mayor. All proceeds from said leases shall be deposited in a revolving fund approved annually pursuant to M.G.L. c. 44, Section 53 E1/2. Fees, rules and regulations established under
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	1149
11-7	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-9
Section 18-1.3, 14A of the Code also apply to events under this section.(Ord. 2012 c. 4)11-8	LIBRARY DEPARTMENT AND TRUSTEES OF THE PUBLIC LIBRARY.	11-8.1	Duties of Trustees.	The Library Department shall be under the charge of a Board of nine (9) Trustees, who shall adopt such measures as shall extend the benefits of the institution as widely as possible, and may from time to time establish branch libraries and delivery stations in different sections of the City; and shall annually appoint an examining Committee of not less than five (5) persons, not members of the Board who, with one of the Board as Chairman, shall examine the library and make to the Board a report of its conditions.(St. 1853 c. 38; St. 1878 c. 114; St. 1885 c. 266 §§ 6, 12; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 18 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 350; Ord. 1989 c. 6; Ord. 1994 c. 5 §§ 1, 2)	11-8.2	Annual Report.	The Board shall, in its annual report, include a statement of the condition of the library, the number of books that have been added thereto during the year, the report of the Committee appointed to examine the library, and the total amount of money received from fines and sales.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 18 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 351)11-9	CIVIL DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.	11-9.1	Department of Civil Defense Established.	There is hereby established a Department of Civil Defense (hereinafter called the “Department”). It shall be the function of the Department to have charge of civil defense as defined in Section 1, Chapter 639, Acts of 1950, and to perform civil defense functions as authorized or directed by said Chapter or by any and all executive orders or general regulations promulgated thereunder, and to exercise any authority delegated to it by the Governor under said Chapter 639.(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 400)Cross-reference:	St. 1950 c. 639 § 1
	11-9.2	Director of Civil Defense.	The Department shall be under the direction of a Director of Civil Defense (hereinafter called the “Director”), who shall be appointed as prescribed by law. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the  Department subject to the direction and control of the appointing authority and shall receive such salary as may be fixed from time to time by the appointing authority. The Director may, within the limits of the amount appropriated therefor, appoint such experts, clerks, and other assistants as the work of the Department may require and may remove them, and may make such expenditures as may be necessary to execute effectively the purposes of Chapter 639, Acts of 1950. The Director shall also have authority to appoint District Coordinators and may accept and may receive on behalf of the City, services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift, grant, or loan for purposes of civil defense, offered by the Federal government or any agency or officer thereof or any person, firm or corporation, subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and regulations, if any, of the agency making the offer. The Director shall cause appropriate records to be kept of all matters relating to such gifts, grants, or loans.(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 401)Cross-reference:	St. 1950 c. 639	11-9.3	Civil Defense Advisory Council.	There is hereby established a Civil Defense Advisory Council (hereinafter called the “Council”). Said Council shall serve without pay and shall consist of the Director of Civil Defense, such other Department heads and such other persons as the authority appointing said Director may deem necessary. Such member of said Council as said appointing authority shall designate shall serve as Chairman of said Council. Said Council shall serve subject to the direction and control of the appointing authority and shall advise said appointing authority and the Director on matters pertaining to civil defense.(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 402)	11-9.4	Police Aid to Other Cities and Towns in Event of Riots and Other Violence Therein.	The Police Department is hereby authorized to go to aid another City or Town at the request of said 
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	1150
11-9	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-10
City or Town in the suppression of riots or other forms of violence therein.(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 403)Cross-reference:	Ord. s 11-1	11-9.5	Termination of Ordinance.	This ordinance shall remain in force during the effective period of Chapter 639, Acts of 1950, and any act in amendment or continuation thereof or substitution therefor.(Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 404)Cross-reference:	St. 1950 c. 639	11-9.6	Definition.	All references to Chapter 639, Acts of 1950, as now in force shall be applicable to any act or acts in amendment or continuation of or substitution for said Chapter 639. (Ord. 1950 c. 8; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Temporary Ord.); CBC 1975 Ord. T11 § 405)Cross-reference:	St. 1950 c. 63911-10	PARKS AND RECREATION	DEPARTMENT.	11-10.1	Overview.	The City of Boston Parks and Recreation Department oversees 2,200 acres of parkland including 215 parks and playgrounds, 65 squares, 16 historic burying grounds, three (3) active cemeteries, two (2) golf courses, a variety of urban woodlands, and immeasurable street trees. The Department also programs a wide range of community events and live entertainment in the parks under its jurisdiction and employs Boston Park Rangers to monitor the parks and enhance public safety. Over the last 10 years, the Parks Department has implemented a $120 million rehabilitation of the City park system targeting every tot lot and most ball fields and hard courts.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
	11-10.2	Dog Recreation Spaces.	11-10.2(a)  Introduction and Purpose.	These sections delineate a community-initiated process for the City of Boston to establish dog recreation spaces within the City of Boston through the City’s Parks and Recreation Commission and an external Applicant for a Boston Dog Recreation Space. The Applicant may be an individual, a group of individuals, or a formal organization. The process is community-initiated, and it remains community- centered by requiring the Applicant to remain actively involved in the maintenance of the space and the implementation of rules and regulations in and around the space. This section is designed and intended to highlight and require a prominent role of the Applicant for a Boston Dog Recreation Space in the creation, establishment, funding, and maintenance of the dog recreation space.	The Applicant will also assume a primary role in establishing, promulgating, and compelling compliance with standards of conduct in and around the dog recreation spaces.	The establishment of a dog recreation space requires measures of flexibility to allow for variations in space availability and the needs of the neighborhoods enjoying the dog recreation space; such flexibility may include the establishment of multi-use parks/areas. Although the City of Boston has a multitude of pre-existing commitments to other current recreational uses in the City’s parks, it is the intention of the City to preserve the space and integrity of the City’s tot lots, tennis courts, basketball courts, tracks, and baseball/softball fields, which shall in no way be diminished or compromised by the siting/location of a Dog Recreation Space. The provisions of these sections, however, shall not preclude an Applicant from seeking to use other publicly-owned land, other than parkland, for a Dog Recreation Space.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(b)  Definitions.	Unless specifically indicated otherwise, these definitions shall apply and control in these sections.
Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1151
11-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-10
	a.	Applicant is defined in CBC 11-10.2(c)	b.	CBC means the City of Boston Code of Ordinances.	c.	Commission means the Parks and Recreation Commission of the City of Boston or its successor.	d.	Dog Keeper means any person that supervises a dog entering a DRS, recreating within a DRS, or exiting a DRS.	e.	Dog Officer means the Dog Officer of the City of Boston as identified in CBC 14-5 or his/her designee, agent, or successor.	f.	Dog Recreation Space or DRS means any area of land, including but not limited to an area within existing public or park space, that, pursuant to CBC 11-10.2, has been specifically designated as a Dog Recreation Space.	g.	MOA means a Memorandum of Agreement between the Parks and Recreation Commission and the Applicant which delineates the understanding and/or agreement of the roles and responsibilities for the creation, maintenance, and operation of a DRS.	h.	Owner means any person that owns a dog entering a DRS, recreating within a DRS, or exiting a DRS whether or not the Owner is acting as a Dog Keeper.	i.	Park Ranger means any Ranger of the Parks and Recreation Department of the City of Boston.	j.	Parks and Recreation Commission means the Parks and Recreation Commission of the City of Boston as identified in CBC 7-4.1 or its designee, agent, or successor.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(c)  Applicant for a Dog Recreation			    Space.		Applicant means a group of ten (10) individuals that applies for and/or receives approval for the designation of a Dog Recreation Space. Nothing in
these sections shall prevent a pre-existing “Friends” group from acting as an Applicant. Each person comprising the Applicant shall be a resident of the City of Boston.	The Applicant shall designate one (1) person to be the sole contact for communication with the City, and the person so designated may be changed by the Applicant only by forwarding written notice to the Commission. No person other than the person so designated on the application, or changed in accordance with the terms of this paragraph, shall have authority or standing to interact with the City regarding a specific DRS. Unless designated on the application, no individual user of a DRS shall have authority or standing to interact with the City regarding a specific DRS.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(d)  Procedure for Establishing and			    Designating a Dog Recreation			    Space.	No Dog Recreation Space may be established without the express written authorization of the Commission.	(1)	Application. The Applicant may apply to the Commission for the establishment of a Dog Recreation Space, and such application shall be submitted to the Executive Secretary of the Parks and Recreation Commission. The application shall include, but not be limited to, (i) the proposed specific site for the DRS, (ii) the specific dimensions of the proposed area for the DRS, (iii) the specific method, including materials, of separation/segregation of the DRS from the adjoining/surrounding area, (iv) the proposed methods, materials, and/or procedures for the placement and maintenance of ground cover, trash receptacles, benches, lights, signage, and water fountain/hose, which support the comfortable use of the DRS, (v) a proposed plan for construction of the DRS including a timeline for construction of the DRS and a plan for funding the construction of the DRS including but not limited to the collection of membership fees, the collection of user fees, private-sector fundraisers, private-sector donations, and/or partnerships with businesses, (vi) a proposed plan for the maintenance of the DRS including a plan for funding the maintenance of the DRS including but
Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1152
11-10	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-10
not limited to the collection of membership fees, the collection of user fees, private-sector fundraisers, private-sector donations, and/or partnerships with businesses, (vii) an estimate of the number of dogs that will use the DRS, (viii) the hours of operation of the DRS but such hours shall not extend beyond the hours noted in CBC 11-10.2(f), (ix) a certification signed by the Applicant that the Applicant notified the abutters of the proposed DRS of the application as prescribed in the attached “Instructions for Notification to Abutters” and “Affidavit of Notice to Abutters and Others,” (x) a description of the Applicant’s efforts to obtain input from the immediate community/neighborhood regarding the DRS including a list of addresses from which input was obtained and which may include a petition signed by identifiable members of the immediate community/neighborhood and the local and state elected officials representing the area of the DRS, (xi) a letter or memorandum of support or a letter or memorandum of non-opposition, from the neighborhood civic association overseeing the proposed site of the DRS referencing the DRS, (xii) an identification of and description of any organization overseeing the operation and/or management of the DRS, (xiii) a draft proposed MOA in a form substantially similar to the form annexed to this ordinance and in a form that, at a minimum, shall contain all of the sections in the draft proposed form MOA annexed to this ordinance, (xiv) any other information the Commission may require, and (xv) the signatures of each person constituting the Applicant or, if the Applicant is comprised of one or more organizations, the signatures of the officers of such organization(s). No application may be considered unless the application contains materials that completely satisfy the requirements of thissubsection.	(2)	Review and Decision. The Applicant shall submit the application to the Commission, through the Executive Secretary of the Parks and Recreation Commission, who shall review the application and shall accept the written comments of the residents of the neighborhood in which the DRS is proposed to be sited and consider such comments before issuing a written decision regarding the application. The Commission shall issue a written decision no later than the sixtieth (60th) calendar day after the Commission’s first meeting subsequent to the Commission’s receipt
of the application. If the Commission disapproves the application then the Commission shall forward a copy of the disapproval, complete with reasons for the disapproval, to the Applicant. If the Commission approves the application then the Commission shall promptly forward written notification of the approval to the Applicant. The approval of the Commission shall contain as a condition for the designation of a proposed area as a DRS a requirement for the Applicant to deposit with the Commission an amount of money determined at the sole discretion of the Commission to be adequate to close and dismantle the DRS as planned in the Application, and such deposit shall be used to close and dismantle the DRS upon the expiration, forfeiture, revocation, or other final termination of the DRS designation if the Applicant fails or refuses to dismantle the DRS within thirty (30) calendar days of the expiration, forfeiture, revocation, or other final termination of the DRS designation. The size of the DRS shall be at the sole discretion of the Commission, and the Commission shall consider the proportion of the DRS to the gross area of the park in which the proposed DRS is located.	The approval of the Commission may contain other conditions for the designation of the proposed area as a DRS.	(3)	Acceptance. The area proposed in an application that has been approved by the Commission shall be designated a Dog Recreation Space if the Applicant, no later than the fourteenth (14th) calendar day after receipt of the Commission’s notice of approval, accepts, in writing, the decision of the Commission including any conditions attached thereto and remits the required deposit. If the Commission does not receive an acceptance and deposit within the fourteen- (14-) day period then the offered designation shall lapse.	(4)	Probation. Upon acceptance, an area’s initial designation as a DRS shall be effective for a one (1) year probationary period wherein the Commission may revoke the designation at the Commission’s discretion.	(5)	Expiration/Sunset/Renewal. The designation of an area as a DRS shall expire on the fifth (5th) anniversary of its acceptance. The Applicant may submit a renewal application to the
Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1153
11-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-10
Commission no earlier than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days before the date of the fifth (5th) anniversary of acceptance of the designation as a DRS or the most recent renewal thereof and no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the fifth (5th) anniversary of the acceptance or renewal of the designation. The Applicant is not required to apply for renewal, and any DRS that is not successfully renewed shall be closed and dismantled by the Applicant within ninety (90) calendar days after the fifth (5th) anniversary of the acceptance or renewal of the designation as a DRS unless the Commission forwards other instructions in writing to the Applicant. The Applicant may apply for renewal of a designation by submitting a written request therefor to the Commission. The Commission shall consult with the Dog Officer regarding the renewal and shall, in writing, approve or reject the renewal within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the request for renewal. Upon receipt of a rejected renewal, the Applicant shall close and dismantle the DRS.	(6)	Re-Application. Nothing in these sections prohibits the Applicant from reapplying if it has received notice of disapproval of an application or if it has allowed an offered designation to lapse from re-applying. The Applicant may not submit more than two (2) re-applications for the same DRS, and the Commission may not review more than two (2) re-applications for the same DRS.	(7)	Design and Construction Approval. At all times, the Parks and Recreation Commission shall have final approval authority over any and all aspects of design and construction and no DRS designation may begin operations as a DRS without the final approval of the Commission.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(e)  Managing a Dog Recreation			    Space.	The Applicant shall promulgate rules and regulations for the use of a DRS. Any rules and regulations shall not be more permissive than the current laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, and/or policies governing the operation and use of public spaces, public parks, and/or Dog Recreation Spaces but may, however, be more restrictive than the 
current laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, and/or policies governing the operation and use of public spaces, public parks, and/or Dog Recreation Spaces. Rules and regulations shall be posted at the DRS, the name and telephone number of the person designated in CBC 11-10.2(c) shall be posted at the DRS, and any signage must be in compliance with CBC 11-10.2 and with the City of Boston’s guidelines.	Complaints regarding a DRS shall be directed to the Commission which shall notify the Applicant of any complaint within five (5) business days. Complaints regarding a DRS may also be directed to the Applicant pursuant to the name and telephone number of the person designated in CBC 11-10.2(c) as posted at the DRS pursuant to the previous subsection.	The Applicant shall be responsible for the management of the DRS. Upon notice to the Applicant of any violation, the Applicant shall have fourteen (14) calendar days to correct any violation. The Applicant shall notify the Dog Officer of any serious incidents, including but not limited to accidents resulting in human or dog injury, any dog bite of a human or another dog, and any verbal or physical altercations between humans, at the DRS and of any troublesome and/or recidivist dogs, Dog Keepers, Owners, and/or other users of the DRS. The Applicant shall notify the Dog Officer of any patterns of objectionable or unsafe behavior or patterns of objectionable or unsafe occurrences for correction or remediation. The Dog Officer and the Applicant shall have the authority to ban any dog and/or any Dog Keeper from a DRS. Uncorrected violations at a DRS, a single serious incident or a pattern of serious incidents at a DRS, or other circumstances compromising public health or public safety may result in temporary closing of the DRS for a defined period of time and/or suspension, forfeiture, or revocation of the DRS designation.	The Maintenance Division of the Parks and Recreation Department shall not be responsible for the maintenance of a DRS. The Commission shall supply and maintain an adequate number of trash receptacles for each DRS. The Applicant shall immediately advise the Commission of any concerns with the adequacy or maintenance of the trash receptacles.
Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1154
11-10	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-10
	The Applicant shall have the authority to recommend to the Commission that a DRS be temporarily closed for a defined period of time and/or suspension or forfeiture of its status as a DRS.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(f)  Use of a Dog Recreation Space.	The use of a Dog Recreation Space shall be subject to the following conditions:	(1)	No dog may enter a DRS or recreate within a DRS unless it is licensed and vaccinated for rabies. No dog may enter a DRS or recreate within a DRS unless it is wearing a collar with the license, the vaccination tag, and a tag with the dog’s name, Owner’s name, and Owner’s telephone number secured to the collar at all times.	(2)	No dog may enter a DRS unless it is more than four (4) months old.	(3)	No person may enter a DRS unless he/she is eighteen (18) years of age or older unless he/she is accompanied by an adult which shall be responsible for the actions of the minor and any dog supervised by such minor.	(4)	Except under exigent circumstances, no person in or near a DRS shall run, shout, scream, wave, or engage in any behavior that excites or antagonizes a dog in or near the DRS or in any way violate the cruelty laws, including but not limited to M.G.L. c. 272, s. 77 and all persons shall note the liability restrictions in M.G.L. c. 140, s. 155.	(5)	No female dog in heat may enter a DRS.	(6)	No dog shall enter or exit the DRS unless restrained by a Dog Keeper on a leash complying with the requirements of the City of Boston Code and each and every Dog Keeper must have a leash for each and every dog so handled on his/her person at all times.	(7)	Each and every Dog Keeper must vigilantly supervise his/her dog(s), including but not limited to, (i) remaining within the DRS at all times during which his/her dog(s) is within the DRS, (ii) keeping his/her dog(s) within sight, (iii) maintaining adequate
behavioral control over his/her dog(s) within and around a DRS, (iv) immediately filling any hole created by his/her dog(s) within and around a DRS and disciplining his/her dog from digging within and around a DRS, and (v) immediately removing and properly disposing of any and all dog waste from within and around a DRS.	(8)	Each and every Dog Keeper must remove his/her dog from a DRS at the first sign of aggression from his/her dog(s) even if the aggression is defensive, retaliatory, or provoked. Dog Keepers and dogs within a DRS remain subject to the requirements, provisions, and penalties of CBC 16-1.9B and M.G.L. c. 140, s. 157.	(9)	No Dog Keeper may bring more than three (3) dogs into or around a DRS at one time.	(10) In no event may bicycles, roller blades, roller skates, scooters, skateboards, strollers, or other similar items enter a DRS. Wheelchairs are expressly permitted within a DRS.	(11) In no event may a Dog Keeper or dog enter a DRS after 11:00 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m.	(12) Use of a DRS shall constitute (i) the consent of the user, Dog Keeper, and/or Owner to all of the laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, and policies governing the operation and use of a DRS, (ii) a waiver of the user, Dog Keeper, and/or Owner of any liability of the City of Boston for any injury or damage arising as a result of the use of a DRS, and (iii) the agreement of the user, Dog Keeper, and/or Owner to protect, indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the City of Boston for any injury or damage arising as a result of the use of a DRS.	Nothing in these sections shall prohibit the development and employment of a specific program to regulate the use of Dog Recreation Spaces which may require licenses and/or fees.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(g)  Education Program.	The Applicant shall create and implement educational programs regarding the laws, ordinances,
Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1155
11-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-10
orders, rules, regulations, and policies regarding dogs, dogs in public spaces, and the use of Dog Recreation Spaces. With the cooperation and funding of the Applicant, the Commission shall install signage at each DRS summarizing the laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, and policies of Dog Recreation Spaces, provided that the size, content, and placement of such signs are approved by the Dog Officer. The signage shall include (i) the name, address, and telephone number of the Applicant, (ii) the name, address, and telephone number of any organization, if such organization is not the Applicant, overseeing the operation and/or management of the DRS, (iii) the title and telephone number of the Dog Officer, and (iv) the name and telephone number of the Department.	The Dog Officer, pursuant to CBC 7-9.2, shall conduct educational programs relating to animal control as it shall deem necessary or desirable.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(h)  Violations and Penalties.	A first violation of these sections in any calendar year shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars and no cents ($100.00). A second violation of these sections in any calendar year shall be subject to a fine of two hundred dollars and no cents ($200.00). A third violation of these sections in any calendar year shall be subject to a fine of three hundred dollars and no cents ($300.00). Any single violation may be subject to revocation of the privileges of the Dog Keeper and the Dog Keeper’s dog(s) to enter a DRS or recreate within a DRS. In the event that the penalties delineated in this sub-section conflict with other fines authorized by the City of Boston then the penalty imposed pursuant to this sub-section shall supplement any other penalty.	A pattern of violations at any DRS may result in temporary closing of the DRS by the Commission for a defined period of time and/or suspension, forfeiture, or revocation of the DRS designation.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
	11-10.2(i)  Suspension, Forfeiture, and/or			    Revocation of Designation as			    Dog Recreation Space and			    Closure.	The Commission shall have the authority to suspend, revoke, or deem forfeited a DRS designation. At the Commission’s sole discretion, the Commission may suspend, revoke, or deem forfeited a DRS designation for reasons including, but not limited to, a violation of these sections, a violation of the MOA, or a failure or refusal to abide by the terms of the MOA. The Commission shall immediately suspend, revoke, or deem forfeited the DRS designation upon a written recommendation of the Dog Officer citing an incident or incidents at or near a DRS that compromise or jeopardize the public health or public safety.	A suspension shall not be considered punitive but shall be for a limited time not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days and for a limited purpose which shall be specified in a written notice of suspension forwarded to the Applicant, and the Commission shall close the DRS for the duration of the suspension. A suspension shall be deemed to be a warning to the Applicant and the users of the DRS. A summary of the reasons for the suspension, the term of the suspension, and the terms for lifting the suspension shall be posted at the DRS.	The Applicant shall be solely responsible for ensuring that the condition(s) requiring correction pursuant to a notice of suspension are subsequently corrected. If the condition(s) in the notice of suspension are not corrected within the limited time of the suspension, then the Commission may, in the Commission’s sole discretion, revoke or deem forfeited the DRS designation upon written notice to the Applicant, and the Commission may order the Applicant to close and dismantle the DRS immediately upon the conclusion of any appeal period or the Commission may close and dismantle the DRS immediately upon the conclusion of any appeal period.	The Applicant may appeal a revocation or forfeiture of a DRS upon written notice of appeal to
Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1156
11-10	PUBLIC SERVICES	11-10
the Commission which shall be delivered to the Executive Secretary of the Commission within ten (10) calendar days of the notice of revocation/forfeiture. The Commission shall schedule a hearing and inform the Applicant of the date, time, and place of the hearing in writing. The hearing shall commence within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of the notice of revocation/forfeiture. At the hearing, the Applicant shall be given an opportunity to be heard, to present witnesses or documentary evidence, and to show why the notice of revocation/forfeiture should be modified or withdrawn. An official record shall be kept of the hearing proceedings and made available to the Applicant upon request. Failure to hold a hearing within the time period specified herein shall not affect the validity and/or enforceability of any notice of revocation/forfeiture.	If a written notice of appeal is not filed with the Executive Secretary Commission within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the notice of revocation/forfeiture or if after a hearing the notice of revocation/forfeiture has been sustained in any part, then the notice of revocation/forfeiture shall be enforceable pursuant to the provisions of these sections.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(j)  Limited Exception of			    CBC 16-1.9.	Although the purpose and intent of CBC 16-1.9 shall be effective at all times, a dog and its Dog Keeper shall benefit from a limited exception to CBC 16-1.9. Specifically, the narrow provision of CBC 16-1.9 prohibiting a dog to run at large in a public place shall be stayed while a Dog Keeper is supervising his/her dog recreating within the confines of a Dog Recreation Space. As noted in a previous section, all dogs must be leashed while entering or exiting the Dog Recreation Space and shall remain leashed at all times outside the Dog Recreation Space.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(k)  Regulatory Authority.	The Commission, pursuant to CBC 7-4.8 or otherwise, shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these sections.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)
	11-10.2(l)  Enforcement Authority.	The Commissioner of the Parks and Recreation Department, the Dog Officer, the Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, and the Commissioner of the Boston Municipal Police Department shall have the authority to implement and enforce these sections and any rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(m)  Severability.	If any provision of these sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(n)  Harmonious Construction.	These sections shall be construed harmoniously with all laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, and policies regarding parks, public spaces, and animal control such that all laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, and policies effectively provide the greatest level of public health, public safety, equity, and fairness.(Ord. 2004 c.13 § 1)	11-10.2(o)  Savings Clause.	Nothing in these sections shall operate to immediately invalidate any dog park existing at the time of passage of these sections except that any pre-existing concerns/problems may be forwarded in writing to the Commission and such concerns/ problems shall be immediately addressed. Any dog park existing at the time of passage of these sections shall be closed within one (1) year of passage of these sections unless an Applicant undertakes the application process for any dog park existing at the time of passage of these sections to become a DRS pursuant to these sections subject to all of the rights, responsibilities, obligations, and duties therein, specifically including but not limited to the probationary period in CBC 11-10.2(d)(4).	Nothing in these sections shall operate to invalidate any dog park that has been designed and/or 
Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1157
11-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	11-10
approved by the Parks and Recreation Department or the Parks and Recreation Commission prior to the passage of these sections except that any pre-existing concerns/problems may be forwarded in writing to the Commission and such concerns/problems shall be immediately addressed. Any such dog park existing at the time of passage of these sections shall be closed within one (1) year of passage of these sections unless an Applicant undertakes the application process for any such dog park existing at the time of passage of these sections to become a DRS pursuant to these sections subject to all of the rights, responsibilities, obligations, and duties therein, specifically including but not limited to the probationary period in CBC 11-10.2(d)(4).(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(p)  Sunset Clause.	The provisions of these sections shall be effective only until the fifth (5th) anniversary of the date of passage unless extended by an order of the Boston City Council and approved by the Mayor of the City of Boston no later than the ninetieth (90th) day following the fifth (5th) anniversary of the date of passage.	The provisions of these sections may be serially extended by an order of the Boston City Council and approved by the Mayor of the City of Boston no later than the ninetieth (90th) day following the fifth (5th) anniversary of the date of extension. No individual extension of these sections may be for a period longer than five (5) years.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)	11-10.2(q)  Implementation.	The provisions of these sections shall be effective sixty (60) calendar days after passage.(Ord. 2004 c. 13 § 1)

Rev. 1/31/05 Supp. 4	1158