	CHAPTER XII	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
12-1	DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HOSPITALS AND TRUSTEES OF HEALTH AND HOSPITALS.	12-1.1	Department of Health and Hospitals.	There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Department of Health and Hospitals, as provided in the Charter as that term is defined in clause Fifth of Section 7 of Chapter 4 of the General Laws.(Ord. December 2, 1872; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 31; Ord. 1968 c. 14 § 5; Ord. 1970 c. 3 § 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 15 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 1)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 4 § 7 c. 1.5	12-1.2	Approval for Closing or Reducing Bed Capacity of Facilities.	The Board of Health and Hospitals shall not close, or reduce the bed capacity of, any facility under its control without the prior approval of the Mayor and the City Council.	This ordinance shall be broadly construed.(Ord. 1973 c. 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 2)12-2	VETERANS SERVICES DEPARTMENT.	12-2.1	Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioner; Power and Duties.	There shall be in the City a Department, known as the Veterans Services Department, which shall be under the charge of an officer, known as the Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioner, who shall be a veteran as defined in Section 1 of Chapter 115 of the General Laws, shall be appointed by the Mayor for a 

term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, and shall have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed by statute upon the Soldiers’ Relief Commissioner of Boston, Veterans’ Agents appointed under Section 3 of said Chapter 115, and Directors of Veterans’ Services appointed under Section 10 of said Chapter 115.(St. 1897 c. 441; Ord. 1946 c. 9; Ord. 1954 c. 2 § 66; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 26 § l; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 50)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 115 §§ 1, 3, 10	12-2.2	Divisions; Appointment of Deputies.	The Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioner may divide the Veterans Services Department from time to time into such divisions as he may deem necessary for the proper conduct of the Department, and, with the written approval of the Mayor in each instance, may appoint such Deputy, and such Assistant, Veterans Benefits and Services Commissioners as he may from time to time deem necessary; provided, however, that no person other than a veteran as defined in Subsection 12-2.1 shall be eligible for such appointment.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 26 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 51)	12-2.3	Supervision of Veterans Graves and Registration.	There shall be in the Veterans Services Department an Officer, known as the Supervisor of Veterans Graves and Registration, appointed by the Mayor, who shall have the powers and perform the duties from time to time conferred or imposed by general laws applicable to Boston on persons appointed under Section 9 of Chapter 115 of the General Laws. The Supervisor of Veterans Graves and Registration shall not be subject to the supervision or control of the Veterans Benefits and Services 	1201
12-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-3
Commissioner; but unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor, such supervisor shall not communicate with the Mayor, or make an annual or other report, except through such Commissioner.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 26 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 52)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 115 § 912-3	COUNCIL ON AGING.	12-3.1	Officers; Appointment, Term, Compensation.	There shall be in the City a Board, known as the Commission on Affairs of the Elderly, consisting of an Officer, known as the Commissioner on Affairs of the Elderly, appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, who shall be Chairman of the Board and shall devote his whole time to the work, and ten (10) other officers, known as Associate Commissioners on Affairs of the Elderly, appointed by the Mayor (for terms of four (4) years). As the term of any such Associate Commissioner expires, his successor shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term of four (4) years. Any vacancy in the office of an Associate Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. The Associate Commissioners shall serve without compensation.(Ord. 1968 c. 5; Ord. 1970 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord, 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 4A § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 100)	12-3.2	Powers and Duties.	The Commission on Affairs of the Elderly shall be cognizant of Federal and State legislation concerning financial assistance, information exchange, and planning for better community programming for the elderly, and shall coordinate or carry out programs designed to meet the problems of the elderly in coordination with programs of the Commission on Aging established under Section 73 of Chapter 6 of the General Laws or its successor in function. The Commission on Affairs of the Elderly shall send to said Commission or its successor in function a copy of the annual report transmitted by it to the Mayor under subsection 5-5.34 of these ordinances.(Ord. 1968 c. 5; Ord. 1970 c. 4 § 2; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 4A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 101)
	12-3.3	Creating Centers for Older Americans.	There shall be in the City, under the auspices of the Commission on Elderly Affairs, a Division of Center for Older Americans.	Said Division shall establish centers throughout the City, to provide for and accommodate the needs of the elderly.	Said centers shall be staffed and operated by the elderly.(Ord. 1975 c. 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 102)	12-3.4	Home Repair Program for Seniors.	There shall be in the City, within the Commission on Affairs of the Elderly, a program known as the Home Repair Program for Seniors, which shall be administered by the Commissioner. Said program shall facilitate repairs which are non-structural in nature to homes owned and occupied by elderly persons, and to units rented by elderly persons in buildings of four (4) or fewer units. The Commissioner shall make every effort to utilize technical and vocational students from the Boston Public School system to make such repairs. The Commissioner shall coordinate funding for the program from Federal, State and private sources and shall work with private, non-profit agencies which conduct similar programs to ensure that such work is fairly and equitably performed on a City-wide basis.	The program described herein shall be administered totally by the Neighborhood Development and Employment Agency (NDEA) of the City of Boston.(Ord. 1984 c.27)	12-3.5	Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Abatement.	a.	Authority and purpose.  The purpose of these provisions is to provide the senior citizens of the City of Boston with the opportunity to reduce their real estate tax bills through a program utilizing certified volunteer services. The authority for these provisions is found in M.G.L. c. 59, s. 5K.
Rev. 1/27/07 Supp. 6	1202
12-3	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-3
	b.	Acceptance of the local option in M.G.L. c. 59, s. 5K.  Enactment of these provisions shall be deemed an official action of the City of Boston to accept the provisions of M.G.L. c. 58, s. 5K, as amended, and the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Abatement Program (“Program”) is hereby authorized and created pursuant to the provisions of these sections.	c.	Definitions.  For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.	City shall mean the City of Boston.	Commission shall mean the Elderly Commission of the City of Boston or the successor thereto.	Commonwealth shall mean the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.	Participant shall mean any person participating in the program. No person is eligible to become a participant until attainment of his or her sixtieth (60th) birthday.	Program shall mean the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Abatement authorized and created by these sections and any programs created thereunder.	d.	Administration.  The Commission shall implement and administer the program. The Commission shall have the authority to promulgate rules, procedures, and regulations for implementation and administration of the program that are consistent with the intent of M.G.L. c. 59, s. 5K and consistent with the provisions of these sections including but not limited to setting any limitations on the eligibility of participants such as income limitations, asset limitations, limitations on the number of participants and the work to be performed, and any limitation of eligibility to a tax reduction on a participant’s domicile. The Commission shall coordinate with the offices, agencies, commissions, departments, or other organizations of the City to receive and utilize certified volunteer services under the program.
	e.	Participants.		1.	In accordance with M.G.L. c. 59, s. 5K, a participant must (i) be over sixty (60) years of age; and (ii) be the assessed owner of the property on which the tax to be abated is assessed or have acquired ownership before the certified volunteer work is performed, and if the property is subject to a trust then the participant must have legal title (i.e., have the status of a trustee for the trust) and be a beneficiary under such trust on the applicable January 1 assessment date or at the time the work is performed. Participants may earn a maximum abatement of seven hundred fifty ($750.00) dollars per fiscal year and may not receive credit for the certified volunteer services at an hourly rate higher than the minimum wage for the Commonwealth, nor shall the hourly rate be less than the federal minimum wage unless the Commonwealth or the City is advised by the Wages and Hours Division of the United States Department of Labor that the Fair Labor Standards Act does not apply to the program.		2.	The number of participants shall be limited to fifty (50) through fiscal year 2011. The maximum number of participants may be increased by written order of the Commission subsequent to permanent adoption of these sections, but in no event shall the maximum number of participants be reduced to less than fifty (50).		3.	Participants shall be determined by the Commission by the chronological order of the applicants’ submission of a complete and qualifying application. In no event shall a person be eligible for the program as a participant if such person’s income exceeds thirty thousand ($30,000.00) dollars for a single applicant or, if married, combined income with his/her spouse shall not exceed forty-five thousand ($45,000.00) dollars. For purposes of this paragraph, a person sixty (60) years of age or older but less than sixty-five (65) years of age shall be considered to be sixty-five (65) years old.	f.	Certification of volunteer services.		1.	The Commission shall require the offices, agencies, commissions, departments, or other organizations of the City receiving and utilizing certified volunteer services under the program to certify to the Commission the hours of services performed by a participant.
Rev. 1/28/08 Supp. 7	1202.1
12-4	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-4
		2.	The Commission must certify to the Assessor of the City the hours of services performed by a participant before the actual tax for the fiscal year is committed and must state the amount actually earned as of the date of the certification. Services performed after that date are credited toward the next fiscal year’s actual tax bill to the extent consistent with the Commission’s rules for the program. The Commission shall provide a copy of the certification to the participant before the tax bill is issued.	g.	Exemptions.  Abatements earned by a participant under the program shall not affect a participant’s eligibility for any property tax exemptions.	h.	Annual report.		1.	In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the program, the Commission shall, at the close of each fiscal year, prepare a detailed report relevant to the program, including but not limited to:			(a)	The name of each and every person that received an abatement under the program, the number of hours certified, and the amount of the respective abatement;			(b)	The address of each and every property that received an abatement under the program and the amount of the respective abatement;			(c)	The name of each and every office, agency, commission, department, or other organization that received volunteer services under the program;			(d)	The total number of hours certified under the program;			(e)	The total number (quantity) of abatements applied under the program;			(f)	The total amount (value) of abatements applied under the program;			(g)	A complete delineation of the costs associated with administering the program.
		2.	The annual report shall be filed with the Boston City Clerk no later than September 1 of each calendar year, and the Boston City Clerk shall file the annual report with the Boston City Council within two (2) weeks of receipt thereof.	(i)	Implementation.  The provisions of this section 12-3.5 shall be effective immediately, but, in accordance with the requirement in M.G.L. c. 59, s. 5K to explicitly state the fiscal year in which the program will be first available, the abatements may not be earned by a participant nor may the abatements be applied to any real estate taxes until the commencement of fiscal year 2008 (i.e. July 1, 2007).	(j)	Severability.  If any provision of this section shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.	(k)	In accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5K, as amended, the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off Abatement is hereby adopted for a period of five (5) years, terminating at the close of Fiscal Year 2016 (i.e. June 30, 2016), but may be extended upon the approval of the mayor of the City of Boston and the City Council which shall be supplied no sooner than April 1, 2016 and no later than December 19, 2016.(Ord. 2006 c. 1; Ord. 2007 c.5; Ord. 2011 c. 7)12-4	COMMISSION FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.	12-4.1	Definitions.	For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context otherwise requires:	Accessibility shall mean the elimination of all barriers including environmental, procedural, 
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1202.2
12-4	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-4
attitudinal and communication barriers which can prevent persons with disabilities from equal opportunity.	Attitudinal barriers shall mean presumptions or feelings regarding physical or mental disabilities and/or persons with disabilities, which can, in themselves, obstruct the access of persons with disabilities to equal opportunities.	Effective communication methods shall mean the use of communication aids, including brailled or taped materials, readers, and machines that enlarge print for persons with visual limitations. Such methods shall also include the use of certified interpreters for persons who are deaf and tele-communication devices for those who have hearing or speaking limitations.	Major life activity shall mean a function including, but not limited to, caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.	Mental impairment shall mean any mental or psychological disorder including, but not limited to, mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities.	Persons with disabilities shall mean persons who (1) have a physical, mental or sensory impairment which substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life activities; or (2) have a record of such impairment; or (3) are regarded as having such an impairment.	Physical impairment shall mean any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems or organs: the neurological, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genito-urinary, skin, endocrine, and hemic and lymphatic body systems; special sense organs and respiratory organs, including speech organs.	Section 504 shall mean Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 USCS S. 794).
	Sensory impairment shall mean any sensory disorder, condition, or anatomical loss of the special sense organs.(Ord. 1971 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 20A § 1, CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 150; Ord. 1987 c. 13 § 1)	12-4.2	Purpose.	The Commission’s purpose is to facilitate full and equal participation in all aspects of life by all persons with disabilities in the City of Boston. To accomplish its purpose, the Commission will aim to reduce the architectural procedural attitudinal and communication barriers which affect persons with disabilities.(Ord. 1971 c. 3; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 20A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. Tl2 § 151; Ord. 1987 c. 13 § 1)	12-4.3	Composition, Appointment, Term and Compensation.	There shall be in the City a Board known as the Commission for Persons with Disabilities, consisting of an officer known as the Commissioner for Persons with Commission, eleven (11) other members, who shall be associate members of the Commission.	The Commissioner and the associate members shall be appointed by the Mayor for the term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected, and each shall serve until his/her successor is duly appointed.	The Commissioner shall be a full-time employee of the City and shall be paid compensation. The associate members shall serve without compensation, but each shall be entitled to reimbursement for his/her reasonable expenses actually and necessarily incurred in the performance of his/her duties as an associate commissioner. The associate members shall be considered special municipal employees for the purposes of G.L. c. 268A.	The associate members shall be qualified by training, experience and demonstrated interest in the rights and equal opportunities of persons with disabilities. A majority of the associate members shall be persons with disabilities, with at least one being blind or legally blind, one being deaf or hard of hearing, and the others, comprising the majority, 
	1203
12-4	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-4
being persons with representative types of disabilities. The associate members shall be representative of the community in terms of race, religion, age and gender.(Ord. 1987 c. 13 § 1)	12-4.4	Powers and Duties of the Commission.	The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:	a.	To develop and promote information and referral services regarding programs, services, rights, accessibility and opportunities for persons with disabilities which foster dignity and self-determination;	b.	To make recommendations and to provide coordination and support to City Departments and agencies concerning public policies, programs, services and regulations as they affect or may affect persons with disabilities;	c.	To inform City Departments and agencies of Federal, State and City funds available for expanding or improving services and programs for persons with disabilities;	d.	To work toward the goal of safe, decent, affordable, accessible housing for persons with disabilities and their families. The Commission shall work with Federal, State, City, private and public agencies and resources to this end;	e.	To provide technical assistance to the City’s Division of Personnel as to how to provide reasonable accommodation, auxiliary aids, and general access to the employment process for persons with disabilities. Such technical assistance shall include, but not be limited to, reviewing job specifications, application forms, and procedures relating to hiring, promotion and firing, including (i) physical accessibility of the application process; (ii) program accessibility, including the availability of effective communication methods; (iii) availability, use and publicity of affirmative action plans; and (iv) review of personnel testing procedures;	f.	To address the transportation needs of persons with disabilities in the City and, in concert with the Mayor’s representative on the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority Advisory Committee, 
representatives from the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), the Massachusetts Port Authority (Massport) and the Executive Office of Transportation and Construction (EOTC), to develop programs for meeting the transportation needs of persons with disabilities, and to monitor any policies related thereto;	g.	To implement, in conjunction with the City’s Department of Inspectional Services, Chapter 40 of the Ordinances of 1979, entitled “Promoting Access to Public Buildings by the Physically Handicapped”, which is intended to promote full access to public buildings by persons with disabilities;	h.	To work for the advancement of the legal and civil rights of all persons with disabilities in the City of Boston;	i.	To coordinate City departmental compliance with Section 504 and all Federal, State, and City rules and regulations requiring programs, activities and services to be readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities;	j.	To monitor compliance with City departmental self-evaluation and transition plans and to make recommendations to the Mayor for corrective action as required;	k.	To develop training and development programs for City personnel to increase their awareness of real and artificial barriers faced by persons with disabilities;	l.	To administer, in cooperation with the City’s Transportation Department, the Temporary Identification Card Program, established by City of Boston Code, Ordinances, Chapter 6, Section 6-7.3; and	m.	To apply for, accept and expend, subject to applicable laws, grants or gifts of funds and other property;	n.	To adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of Commission business, which shall be approved as to form by the Corporation Counsel, approved and signed by the Mayor, and filed with the City Clerk.(Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)Cross-reference:	ss 5-5.32
	1204
12-4	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-5
	12-4.5	Powers and Duties of the Commissioner.	The Commissioner shall have the following specific powers and duties:	a.	To hire staff for the Commission consistent with the Commission’s purpose. The Commissioner shall hire, at a minimum, a Director for Civil Rights, who shall also be the City’s 504 Coordinator;	b.	To act as spokesperson for the Commission;	c.	To participate in and oversee the day-to-day affairs for the Commission;	d.	To perform all the functions of a department head including, but not limited to and subject to applicable laws, entering into agreements with individuals or entities and preparing the annual budget.(Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)	12-4.6	Powers and Duties of the Associate Members.	The associate members shall have the following specific powers and duties:	a.	To advise the Commissioner on policy and planning and the need for programs and services for persons with disabilities;	b.	To consult with the Commissioner in evaluating and modifying the City’s policies as they relate to Federal, State and City laws and regulations concerning the civil rights of persons with disabilities;	c.	To assist the Commissioner in establishing priorities for the Commission’s activities; and	d.	To review, at least annually, the programs, policies and budget of the Commission and to make recommendations as to such programs, policies and budget.(Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)	12-4.7	Responsibilities of City Agencies.	The services of all City departments, agencies, commissions and offices shall be made reasonably 
available to the Commission for effectuating the policy of this section. The head of any City Department, Agency, Commission or Office shall provide information in the possession of such Department, Agency, Commission or Office when the Commission so requests and where such information relates to the functions and responsibilities of the Commission. Such information may include departmental self-evaluation and transition plans pursuant to Section 504 and its implementing regulations.	Each Department Head shall designate a liaison to the Commission. The responsibilities of each liaison shall include:	a.	Attendance at trainings and work group sessions as requested; and	b.	Coordination of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and/or other disability related civil rights mandates, including monitoring assistance and information distribution.(Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 1)	12-4.8	Severability.	If any provision or subsection of this section shall be held to be invalid, such provision or subsection shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions or subsections of this section, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 2)	12-4.9	Effective Date.	This section shall take effect upon passage.(Ord. 1987 c. 13, § 3)12-5	COMMISSION ON MENTAL RETARDATION.	12-5.1	Composition of Board.	There shall be in the City a Board, known as the Commission on Mental Retardation, consisting of the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, ex officiis, or their respective designees, and thirteen (13) persons appointed by the Mayor, each for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next 
	1205
12-5	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-6
biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected. In making the appointments to be made by him, the Mayor shall give consideration to the appointment of persons associated with, or representative of, the Division of Social and Rehabilitation Services in the Federal Department of Health, Education and Welfare; the Area Director for Community Mental Health and Retardation Area VI in the Commonwealth, the Division of Special Education in the City’s School Department, and the Greater Boston Association for Retarded Children; and nine (9) inhabitants of the City who are parents of retarded children and indicate a willingness to serve on the Board.	The Mayor shall, from time to time, designate one of the members of the Board as Chairman. The Vice-Chairman shall be elected by the Board by majority vote. The Board may appoint a clerical assistant.	All members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.(Ord. 1970 c. 1; Ord. 1971 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 18A § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 200)Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 12 § 1	12-5.2	Duties.	It shall be the duty of the Commission on Mental Retardation to meet at least once each month; to coordinate to the fullest possible extent the work of all public and private agencies dealing with the problems besetting the parents of children who are mentally retarded and assisting retarded children in any manner; to bring about a continual dialogue and exchange of views between Federal, State, and local agencies concerned with the effective administration of programs for the mentally retarded; to conduct either independently or in conjunction with the School Committee of the City or any other appropriate agency such education programs as the Board deems necessary; to coordinate the existing recreational programs for retarded children and to initiate where appropriate new and innovative recreational programs for retarded children. The board shall issue an annual report of its activities to the Mayor and City Council and shall at all times be free to suggest new programs for the City and request proper financing for such 
programs as the Board feels feasible for the program and the City’s needs in the area of mental retardation.(Ord. 1970 c. 1; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 18A § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 201)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.32; Statutes, Title 7 §§ 109, 11012-6	YOUTH ACTIVITIES COMMISSION AND CORPORATION.	12-6.1	Youth Services Commission.	a.	Composition. There shall be in the City of Boston a Youth Services Commission consisting of the Superintendent of Schools, the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, the Police Commissioner, the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, the director of the Community School program and the director of the Mayor’s Office of Job and Community Services, ex officio or their respective designees, the Chairman of the City Council Special Committee on Youth Services, ex officio, and eight (8) members appointed by the Mayor each for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected. In making appointments to the commission, the Mayor shall appoint persons with demonstrated experience in counseling, advising or employing youth; experience as a supervisor or director of a youth program or agency in Boston; experience in traditional or alternative educational programs for youth; or experience in the delivery of health or drug abuse prevention services to children or adolescents. At least one of the Mayor’s appointees to the commission shall be a young person between the ages of fifteen (16) and nineteen (19). At least one of the Mayor’s appointees to the Commission shall be a parent of a child or children under age eighteen (18). At least one of the Mayor’s appointees shall be a Boston Housing Authority tenant.	The Mayor shall designate one member of the Commission as Chairman. All members shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.	b.	Powers and Duties. The Commission shall evaluate the delivery of youth services in Boston; shall advise the Mayor and the City Council on ways to 
	1206
12-7	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-8
expand and coordinate counseling, employment, health, educational and recreational programs for the youth in Boston and to minimize drug abuse and violence among children and adolescents; shall work to coordinate the delivery of youth services by the various departments and agencies of the City; shall work to coordinate the delivery of youth services in Boston by other governmental and private agencies; shall work to coordinate and encourage private sponsorship and investment in youth programs in Boston and shall direct and oversee the annual compilation and publication of a comprehensive directory of youth services in Boston.(Ord. 1989 c. 10 §§ 1, 2)12-7	DRUG ABUSE COORDINATING COUNCIL.	12-7.1	Composition of Board.	There shall be in the City a Board, known as the Coordinating Council on Drug Abuse, consisting of the Corporation Counsel, the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, the Penal Institutions Commissioner, the Police Commissioner and the Chairman of the Youth Activities Commission, ex officiis, or their respective designees, and sixteen (16) persons appointed by the Mayor each for a term expiring on the first Monday of the January following the next biennial municipal election at which a Mayor is elected. In making the appointments to be made by him, the Mayor shall give consideration to the appointment of persons associated with, or representative of, the Federal Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, the Division of Food and Drugs in the State Department of Public Health, the probation officers of the Municipal Court of the City of Boston, the Boston Juvenile Court, and the other municipal and district courts in the City, the public, and the nonpublic, schools in the City, the Model Cities Drug Program, the Boston Teachers Union, the Drug Treatment and Drug Education Committee of United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston, and the project currently coordinated by the Boston University Mental Health Center and the Boston College-Urban League Joint Center for Intercity Change. At least two (2) of the persons appointed by the Mayor shall be doctors or psychologists who have dealt with the medical and psychological problems of youth in Boston.
	The Mayor shall from time to time designate one of the members of the Board as Chairman and another as Vice-Chairman. The Mayor shall designate a full-time executive secretary of the Board. The Board may appoint clerical assistance.	All members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.(Ord. 1969 c. 17; Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10C § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 300)	12-7.2	Duties.	It shall be the duty of the Coordinating Council on Drug Abuse to meet at least once a month; to coordinate to the fullest possible extent the work of all public and private agencies dealing with drug abuse; to effect an ongoing dialogue and exchange of views between such agencies; to conduct, either independently or in conjunction with the School Committee of the City, such drug education programs as said Council deems advisable; to conduct studies, investigations and research into the sources and use of harmful drugs and narcotic drugs as those terms are respectively defined in Section 187A and Section 197 of Chapter 94 of the General Laws, as now or hereafter amended; to pursue a course of action to insure that all laws governing the sale, possession and use of both harmful and narcotic drugs are a duly enforced; and by the use of such media of communication as said Council shall from time to time deem appropriate, keep the inhabitants of the City informed respecting the use of both harmful and narcotic drugs.(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 10C § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 301)Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 94 §§ 187A, 19712-8	PENAL INSTITUTIONS DEPARTMENT.Editor’s Note:	Chapter 138 of the Statutes of 1991, sections	  356-363, abolished the City of Boston Penal	  Institutions Department and the post of Penal	  Institutions Commissioner. In addition, the	  Deer Island House of Corrections mentioned	  in the ordinance was subsequently	  decommissioned upon the opening of the new	  facility.
	1207
12-8	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-9
	12-8.1	Powers and Duties of Commissioner.	The Penal Institutions Department shall be under the charge of the Penal Institutions Commissioner, who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties provided by statute; and shall have the charge and control of Deer Island and the House of Correction at Deer Island.(St. 1895 c. 449 § 14; St. 1896 c. 536 § 9; St. 1897 c. 395 § 5; St. 1928 c. 389; Ord. 1924 c. 9; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 1; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 350)	12-8.2	House of Correction at Deer Island.	The Penal Institutions Commissioner shall exercise the powers and perform the duties in regard to the House of Correction at Deer Island and the prisoners committed thereto formerly exercised and performed by the Institutions Commissioner.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 351)	12-8.3	Organization of Department.	The Penal Institutions Commissioner shall be the executive and administrative head of the Department and may organize said Department as he may find necessary for its proper conduct.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 352)Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-5.33	12-8.4	Annual Report.	The Commissioner shall, in his annual report, include a statement of the expenditures and receipts of each institution for the preceding financial year, giving the condition of each, with the number of inmates admitted thereto and discharged therefrom, the births and deaths therein, and the number of persons remaining in the same.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 20 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T12 § 353)
12-9	HUMAN RIGHTS.	12-9.1	Policy.	It is the policy of the City of Boston to assure that every resident shall have equal access to and benefit from all public services, to protect every resident in the understanding and respect among all residents of the City. It is clear that behavior which denies equal treatment to any of our citizens as a result of their religious creed, race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, disability, national origin, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment, sexual orientation, military status, marital status or parental status, or which is sexually or racially harassing undermines civil order and deprives persons of the benefits of a free and open society. Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as supporting or advocating any partnership, religious view or lifestyle. To the contrary, it is the intention of this ordinance that all persons be treated fairly and equally and it is the expressed intent of this ordinance guarantee to all of our citizens fair and equal treatment under law.(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17, c. 40; Ord. 2002 c. 9)	12-9.2	Definitions.	As used in this section the following terms shall have the meanings as indicated unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:	Age shall mean any persons between the ages of forty (40) and sixty-five (65).	Bona fide occupational qualification shall mean a valid consideration of race, color, sex, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status, or source of income which is a requirement for employment and has been certified as such by the Commission or by the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination under Chapter 151B of the Massachusetts general Law.	Bonding transaction shall mean the furnishing of a performance, fiduciary or other form of bond to any person.	Commission shall mean the Human Rights Commission.
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	1208
12-9	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-9
	Credit transaction shall mean the open or closed end grant, extension, denial or termination of credit to any individual.	Disability shall mean a condition which causes a physical or mental impairment which limits, or is regarded as limiting one or more major life activity.	Educational facility shall mean any person, whether organized for profit or not-for-profit, that holds itself out to the public as providing instruction or training in the arts, sciences, trade or any other area of learning.	Employee shall mean any individual who is engaged to work for or under the direction or control of another for monetary or other valuable consideration, but shall not include any individual employed by her or his parents, spouse or children.	Employer shall mean any individual, partnership, association, corporation, trustees, public charity, foundation, political subdivision, board, department, commission, agency or any other person which engages and controls the services of an individual in the City of Boston in exchange for monetary or other valuable consideration, except that it shall not include any employer with six (6) or less persons in its employ, exclusive of parents, spouse or children, nor does it include a club exclusively social, or a fraternal association or religious organization, incorporated or unincorporated, if such fraternal association or religious organization is not incorporated for profit and if the primary function thereof is religious or fraternal.	Employment agency shall mean and include any person undertaking to procure employees or opportunities to work for potential employees.	Ex-offender status shall mean (i) the condition of having been arrested, detained, or accused of any violation of law which no conviction resulted, or (ii) a final conviction for any of the following misdemeanors: drunkenness, simple assault, speeding, minor traffic violations, affray, or disturbing the peace, or (iii) any conviction of a misdemeanor where the date of such conviction or completion of any period of incarceration resulting therefrom, which ever date is later, occurred five (5) or more years prior to the date of the exercise of any right or privilege under this Chapter, unless such person has 
been convicted of any offense within five (5) years immediately preceding the exercise of any right or privilege under this Chapter.	Executive Director shall mean the Executive Director of the Boston Human Rights Commission as established by this Chapter.	Gender identity or expression shall mean and include a person’s actual or perceived gender, as well as a person’s gender identity, gender-related self-image, gender-related appearance, or gender-related expression whether or not that gender identity, gender-related self-image, gender-related appearance, or gender-related expression is different from that traditionally associated with a person’s sex at birth.	Insurance transactions shall mean the sale, grant or other provision of insurance to any person.	Labor organization shall mean any organization which exists and is constituted for the purpose, in whole or part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with employers concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or of other mutual aid or protection in connection with employment.	Marital status shall mean the actual condition of being or having been married, separated or divorced or the condition of being single.	Military status shall mean the condition of being, or having been in the services of the military.	Parental status shall mean the condition of having minor or disabled children.	Person shall mean and include one or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, agencies, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy and receivers, the City and all political subdivisions, boards and commissions provided, however, “person” shall not be applied to an individual acting in a purely private transaction.	Prior psychiatric treatment shall mean an actual or supposed mental impairment of a person caused by illness, injury, birth, professional treatment or hospitalization.	Public accommodation and service shall mean any place, business, facility or other establishment of whatever kind, or agency, whether owned privately or
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	1209
12-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-9
by a public agency which caters or offers services, facilities or goods to or is intended for the use or convenience of the general public whether for a charge or fee or not. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to include or apply to any place, business, facility or other establishment which is by its nature distinctly private, except that when such establishment caters or offers services to the general public, it shall be deemed a public accommodation during such period.	Respondent shall mean a person against whom a complaint has been filed pursuant to this Chapter.	Sexual orientation shall mean actual or supposed homosexuality, heterosexuality, or bisexuality by orientation or practice, including but not limited to an orientation or practice, including but not limited to an orientation that may be presumed on the basis of mannerisms, physical characteristics, manner of dress or deportment.	Source of income shall mean the manner or means by which an individual supports herself or himself, and his or her dependents, except that in this Chapter it shall not include any criminal activity from which a source of income is derived.(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17, c. 40; Ord. 2002 c. 9)	12-9.3	Discriminatory Practices Regarding Employment.	It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for a person directly or indirectly to refuse to hire, employ, classify or upgrade, to bar or to discharge from employment, or otherwise discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, including compensation, because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of such individual, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. A person who asserts that a discriminatory employment practice is justified because of a bona fide occupational qualification which has not been certified as such by the Commission or by the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination under Chapter 151B of the Massachusetts General Laws shall have the burden of showing that the discrimination is in fact a necessary result of a bona fide occupational qualification and that
there exists no less discriminatory means of satisfying the occupational qualification.	It shall further be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for any employment agency, directly or indirectly, to fail or refuse to classify properly or refer for employment or otherwise discriminate against any person because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of such person. An employment agency that specializes in the recruitment and placement of elderly or disabled employees shall be exempt from the operation of this section with respect to such specialized services for the elderly or disabled, provided that such specialized services not discriminate among the elderly or disabled on the basis of other discriminatory criteria.	Nothing herein shall be construed to bar any religious or denominational institution or organization, or any organization operated for charitable or educational purposes, which is operated, supervised or controlled by or in connection with a religious organization, and which limits membership, enrollment, admission, or participation to members of that religion, from giving preference in hiring or employment to members of the same religion, or employment limited to the elderly or disabled, provided that such employment shall not discriminate among the elderly or disabled on the basis of other discriminatory criteria.(Ord. 1984 c. 16; Ord. 2002 c. 9)	12-9.4	Discriminatory Practices Regarding Labor Organizations.	It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for a labor organization directly or indirectly to refuse to admit to membership, apprenticeship, training or classification or to discriminate otherwise against any individual, absent a bona fide occupational reason or other reasonable cause, because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of such individuals.(Ord. 1984 c. 16; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	1210
12-9	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-9
	12-9.5	Discriminatory Practices Regarding Credit Transactions, Bonding and Insurance.	It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for any bank, financial institution, or other credit granting or approving institution or person, including any retail store that sells goods or services on credit, directly or indirectly to discriminate in the granting, reporting, approval or extension of any form of loan or credit to any person because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, ex-offender status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of such person. It shall not be an unlawful discriminatory practice under this subsection to establish or review the creditworthiness of any person by seeking information relevant to such creditworthiness such as amount and source of income, age, employment history, credit references, and the number and age of dependents.	Further it shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this ordinance for any bonding institution or person engaged in the service of providing financial and performance bonds to refuse to bond any person or discriminate in the terms of bonding any persons because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status or source of income of such individual.	Further it shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this ordinance for any insurance company to refuse to insure any person or discriminate in the terms of insuring any individual because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status, ex-offender status or source of income of such person, unless based on a bona fide actuarially determined insurance factor relative to the age or health of the person which affects the risk for which such insurance is being sought.(Ord. 1984 c. 16; Ord. 2002 c. 9)
	12-9.6	Discriminatory Practices Regarding Education.	It shall be unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for any educational facility directly or indirectly to fail or refuse to admit, or to curtail or terminate admission to, or to discriminate in the terms or conditions of educational services, opportunities, and curriculum offered to any person, absent a showing of reasonable cause as to why such discrimination may be warranted because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status, parental status, ex-offender status or source of income of such person.	The following practices shall be exempt from the operation of this section: the selection of students by a religious educational facility that is limited exclusively or gives preference to members of such religion; the establishment or maintenance by an educational facility of a school or program limited to the members of only one sex or otherwise segregated by sex, consistent however, with Federal and State statutes, the establishment by an education facility of minimum or maximum age requirements for any educational program; and the establishment by an educational facility of special programs designed to assist or provide special training for the disabled, the elderly, individuals who do not speak English, or the economically impoverished.(Ord. 1984 c. 16; Ord. 2002 c. 9)	12-9.7	Discriminatory Practices Regarding Public Accommodations and Services.	It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for any person that owns, leases, rents, operates, manages, or in any manner controls a public accommodation directly or indirectly, or who provides a public service, to withhold, deny, curtail or in any manner limit or discriminate with respect to the full use of such public accommodation or service because of the race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, age, religious creed, disability, national origin or ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, prior psychiatric treatment, military status, ex-offender status or source of income of such individual, unless such public accommodation or service specifically designated for the exclusive use of
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	1211
12-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-9
the elderly or disabled, provided, however, nothing contained herein shall permit the use of restrooms, baths, showers, dressing rooms, or other private accommodations which are separated by sex to be used to by the opposite sex, except it shall be an unlawful and discriminatory practice to prevent or prohibit the use of restrooms, baths, showers, dressing rooms, or other private accommodations based on the gender identity publicly and exclusively expressed or asserted by the person seeking to use such restrooms, baths, showers, dressing rooms, or other private accommodations.(Ord. 1984 C 16, c. 30; Ord. 2002 c. 9)	12-9.8	Other Unlawful Practices.	It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for any person to discriminate against any individual because he or she opposed any practice made unlawful by this Chapter, or testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this Chapter.	It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this Chapter for any person to aid or abet another in the violation of any provision of this Chapter.	It shall be an unlawful practice and thereby deemed a violation of this chapter to cause or attempt to cause any person to discriminate against an individual in violation of this Chapter.(Ord. 1984 c. 16)	12-9.9	Establishment of the Boston Human Rights Commission, Executive Director, Staff.	There shall be in the City a Commission known as the Boston Human Rights Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. The Commission shall be comprised of seven (7) members, to be known as Commissioners, each appointed by the Mayor. The Commissioners shall each serve a term of three (3) years, provided, however, that of the members first appointed to the Commission, three (3) shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2) shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years and two (2) shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter the Mayor shall appoint each successor to a term of three (3) years. Any vacancy occurring otherwise than
by expiration of term shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor for the unexpired term.	The Mayor shall appoint annually a Commissioner as the Chairperson of the Commission. Four (4) Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of conducting the business of the Commission. Four (4) votes shall be required to pass any Commission decision.	The Commissioners shall be subject to the residency and voting requirements appearing in the City of Boston Code, Ord. Subsection 5-5.2, notwithstanding the exception contained therein. The Commissioners shall be classified special municipal employees for the purposes of Chapter 268A of the General Laws. The Commissioners shall serve without compensation, but each Commissioner shall be entitled to his or her reasonable expenses actually and necessarily incurred in the performance of her or his duties as Commissioner. These expenditures shall be paid from the budget of the Commission. The Commission staff shall consist of an Executive Director, and such personnel as the Commission, upon recommendation of the Executive Director, may deem expedient subject to appropriation.	The Executive Director shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The Mayor shall determine the rate of compensation for the Executive Director.(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17)	12-9.10	Powers and Duties of Executive Director.	The Executive Director shall have the powers of a department head except for those powers explicitly conveyed to the Commission by this Chapter and shall be responsible for carrying out the policies and decisions of the Commission.	The Executive Director shall have the power and duty to make investigations of discriminatory practices which appear to be in violation of this Chapter and to file complaints with the Commission based upon findings of fact, and conclusions of law only, where there is a probable cause that a violation of this Chapter has occurred. The Executive Director shall be required to appear quarterly before the City Council to give a report of the Commission’s activities and to answer questions of the Council. The Executive Director shall have the power to attempt to mediate or 
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	1212
12-9	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-9
conciliate any complaint of alleged discrimination under this ordinance where there is probable cause for such complaint. The Executive Director shall further file, on conforming forms, all complaints with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission where such complaints relate to discrimination under the jurisdiction of the MCAD and/or the EEOC. The Executive Director shall fix the compensation of the Commission staff within the budgetary limits of the Commission after appropriation by the City Council. (Ord. 1984 c. 16)	12-9.11	Powers and Duties of the Commission.	The Commission shall study the problems of discrimination in the City and shall make such recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council, as in its judgment will effectuate the policy of this Chapter.	The Commission may, on its own behalf, issue a complaint, upon a reasonable belief that a person has engaged in an unlawful discriminatory practice.	The Commission shall have the power to conduct hearings, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, including but not limited to filing contempt proceedings with Superior Court, administer oaths, take the testimony of any person under oath and in connection therewith to require the production for examination of any documents, books, papers, or evidence relating to any matter in question or under investigation by the Commission. The Commission may delegate any of its hearing powers to individual Commissioners or members of the Commission staff. Subpoena power shall be exercised by the Chairperson of the Commission, or his or her designee, upon majority vote of the Commission. At any hearing before the Commission, or any committee thereof, a witness shall have the right to be represented by counsel.	The Commission shall have the power to issue publications, results of investigations and research as, in its judgment, will promote good will and minimize or eliminate prejudice, intolerance, bigotry or discrimination and disorder occasioned thereby.
	The Commission shall, upon the Executive Director’s failure to conciliate a complaint, submit a written report of its findings and recommendations to the Mayor with copies of this report filed with the City Council, the Corporation Counsel, the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (on matters within its jurisdiction), and to any other governmental agency or court having jurisdiction.	Further, the Commission has the power to adopt rules and regulations which it deems necessary to the function of the Commission, provided, however, that all such rules and regulations shall, for a thirty (30) day period following their adoption by the Commission, be held for review and comment by the City Council in an open public hearing, and may be referred to the Corporation Counsel by a vote of a majority of members of the City Council for a ruling on the appropriateness of such rules or regulations. The Commission may recommend to the Mayor and or the City Council additional legislation to aid in the carrying out of the purposes of this Chapter.(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17, c. 18)	12-9.12	Procedures.	Any person claiming to be aggrieved by an alleged discriminatory practice under this ordinance or claiming to represent an aggrieved person, may, by her or himself or her or his attorney, file with the Commission a verified written complaint. The Complaint shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have committed the discriminatory practice and shall set forth in detail the particular circumstances. The complaint shall be amended to include additional information as required by the Commission. No complaint shall be considered unless it is filed with the Commission within one hundred eighty (180) days after the occurrence of the alleged discriminatory practice, or unless it has been referred to the Commission by the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission after having been timely filed with either and or both agencies.	The Executive Director shall forthwith transmit a copy of the complaint to the respondent by hand or by certified mail return receipt requested.	The Commission shall not accept a complaint from any person who has filed a complaint with the 
	1213
12-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-9
Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination with respect to the same grievance unless requested by the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination to do so.	Upon receipt of a duly filed complaint, the Executive Director shall cause a prompt investigation to be made in connection therewith. After completing the investigation, the Executive Director shall file a written report containing a recommendation concerning the disposition of the matter with the Commission.	Under no circumstances may a report reflect bias where a respondent has exercised his or her constitutional rights relative to providing testimony which may tend to incriminate one’s self. Neither may the Commission proceed with a complaint unless there is sufficient probable cause that a violation exists, such probable cause being based on evidence which will stand the test of court scrutiny as to its merit and substance. If after a review of a complaint the Commission finds that no probable cause exists for crediting the allegations of the complaint, the Commission shall order the Executive Director to issue and transmit to complainant and the respondent, by hand or certified mail, return receipt requested, an order dismissing the allegations. The Executive Director on behalf of the Commission shall also issue a notice to both complainant and respondent a copy of federal and state laws governing legal actions one may pursue relative to frivolous actions. If the Commission shall determine after such investigation or review that probable cause exists for crediting the allegations of the complaint, the Commission shall order the Executive Director to immediately endeavor to eliminate the discriminatory practice complained of through persuasion, conciliation and negotiation. Nothing said or done during and as part of such conciliation efforts shall be made public or used as evidence in subsequent proceedings unless each of the interested parties agree thereto in writing. If conciliation succeeds, the terms of the conciliation agreement shall be reduced to writing and signed by or on behalf of the parties and the Commission. Conciliation agreements may be made public, but such public disclosure shall not reveal the identities of the parties involved, except with the agreement of all respondents.
	In case of failure to reach a conciliation agreement to eliminate a discriminatory practice within thirty (30) days after a determination of probable cause, or in advance thereof if the Commission believes the circumstances so warrant, or if probable cause exists that a conciliation agreement has been violated, the Executive Director shall cause to be issued and served in the name of the Commission, a written notice together with a copy of such complaint, as the same may have been amended, requiring the respondent to answer the charges of such complaint at a hearing before the Commission, at a time and place to be specified in such notice. The respondent may file in person or otherwise a verified written answer to the complaint and appear at such a hearing in person, with or without counsel.	The Executive Director or his or her designee shall present evidence at the hearing. The Commission shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law. The testimony, however, shall be under oath and shall be recorded upon the request of either party. Each party respondent may appear at such hearing in person or by a duly authorized representative. Each party may present testimony and evidence.	Each party shall have the right to cross-examine adverse witnesses.	If upon all the evidence, the Commission finds that a respondent has not engaged in any such discriminatory practice or violation of a conciliation agreement, the Commission shall issue and transmit to the complainant and the respondent, by hand or by certified mail return receipt requested, an order dismissing that complaint as to such respondent.	If, upon all the evidence presented at the hearing, the Commission determines that a respondent has engaged in any discriminatory practice as defined in this ordinance or has violated a conciliation agreement, the Commission shall issue an order stating its findings of fact and order for resolving the complaint.	The Commission shall establish rules of practice to govern, expedite and effectuate the foregoing procedure and its own actions thereunder.
	1214
12-9	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-9A
	If a finding is made that a respondent has engaged in a discriminatory practice or violated a conciliation agreement, the Commission shall make a written report of its findings and recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council, with a copy to the Corporation Counsel, on any matter within his or her jurisdiction for review and implementation or to the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination on any matter in question, and in all cases, urging and using its best efforts to bring about compliance with the Commission’s order. In the conduct of any mediation, investigation, hearing, or representation of any conciliation, complaint, the Commission may call upon not only the members and staff of the Commission, but to the extent practicable, any City department or agency.	If a finding is made that a respondent, who has engaged in a discriminatory practice or violation of a conciliation agreement, is a City contractor or subcontractor performing under municipally funded or assisted contracts, the Mayor shall cause said contracts or subcontracts to be immediately reviewed, and may suspend or revoke said contracts or subcontracts, or otherwise employ all available means to bring the contractor or subcontractor into immediate compliance.	If a finding is made that a respondent, who has engaged in a discriminatory practice or violation of a conciliation agreement, is a licensee, who has obtained a license to operate from the City of Boston or agency thereof, the Mayor shall cause said license to be immediately reviewed, and may suspend or revoke said license, or otherwise employ all available means to bring the licensee into immediate compliance.	Any person aggrieved by a finding of the Commission is entitled to reconsideration upon written summary and transcripts by the full Commission. Written request for such rehearing must be filed with the Commission within seven (7) days of receipt of the Commission’s written report. Upon receipt of a request for reconsideration the Commission shall notify all interested parties who shall have seven (7) days to submit any documents, reports or summaries to the Commission. The full Commission shall meet in executive session to review the complaint, summaries, written reports, transcripts, documents or other material, within sixty (60) days of the receipt of the request for reconsideration.
	A certified copy of any report, finding or order of the Commission may be admitted as evidence in any court of competent jurisdiction.	Nothing herein shall in any way violate open hearing laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the Federal Freedom of Information Act.(Ord. 1984 c. 16, c. 17)	12-9.13	Construction of Ordinance.	The provisions of this ordinance shall be construed for the accomplishment of the purposes hereof. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit civil rights granted or hereinafter afforded by the laws of the United States Government or of the Commonwealth. (Ord. 1984 c. 16)	12-9.14	Effect of State and Federal Laws.	Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to exempt or relieve any person from any liability, duty, penalty, or punishment provided by any present or future law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the United States, other than any such law which purports to require or permit the doing of any act which would be unlawful under this ordinance.	Any remedies provided by this ordinance shall be cumulative with any other remedies provided by State or Federal law.(Ord. 1984 c. 16)	12-9.15	Severability.	If any provision or section of this Chapter shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision or section be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions or sections of this ordinance, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 1984 c. 16)12-9A	PROTECTION OF FAMILIES.	12-9A.1	Definitions.	When used in this Chapter, and for purposes of providing only those rights specified in this Chapter:
	1215
12-9A	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-9A
	a.	Domestic partnership shall mean two (2) persons who meet the following criteria and affirm that:		1.	They share basic living expenses;		2.	They assume responsibility for the welfare of their partner and any dependents registered pursuant to subsection 12-9A.2;		3.	They are at least eighteen (18) years of age;		4.	They are competent to enter into a contract;		5.	They declare that they are each other’s sole domestic partner;		6.	They are not married to anyone nor related to each other by blood closer than would bar marriage in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts;		7.	They shall notify the City Clerk of any change in the status of their domestic partnership; and		8.	They register their domestic partnership as set forth in subsection 12-9A.2 of this section; and their dependents as registered pursuant to subsection 12-9A.2.	b.	Dependent shall mean a person registered pursuant to subsection 12-9A.2, who has not registered as a domestic partner and who receives significant financial or significant in-kind assistance toward her or his caretaking or costs of food, shelter, utilities, and essential household goods from the domestic partnership.	c.	Basic living expenses shall mean the cost of food, shelter, utilities and essential household goods. The individuals need not contribute equally to the cost of these expenses. Labor or services in kind shall be recognized as contributions to basic living expenses.	d.	Assume Responsibility for the Welfare of shall mean assume an obligation to provide, if necessary, for a person’s basic living expenses and to assume joint responsibility for any other expenses of that person which arise out of a program or benefit for which that person qualified because of a statement 
filed pursuant to this section, subject to the limitations contained in subsection 12-9A.5 of this section.	e.	Domestic partner shall mean a person who meets the criteria set out in subsection 12-9A.1a. of this section and registers pursuant to subsection 12-9A.2 of this section;(Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 1)	12-9A.2	Registration.	a.	Statement of Domestic Partnership.		1.	Domestic partners may make an official record of their domestic partnership by completing, signing, and submitting to the City Clerk a statement of domestic partnership. Persons submitting a statement of domestic partnership must declare under penalty of perjury that they meet the criteria set out in subsection 12-9A.1a. of this section.		2.	The domestic partnership statement shall include the names of the domestic partners, the date on which they became each other’s domestic partners, and the names of any dependents of the domestic partnership.	b.	Registration of Additional Dependents. Domestic partners shall amend their registration statement whenever additional dependents become part of the domestic partnership. Only those dependents who are registered pursuant to this section shall be considered dependents of a domestic partnership.	c.	Termination of Domestic Partnership. Either member of a domestic partnership may terminate the domestic partnership by filing a termination statement with the City Clerk. Termination of a domestic partnership shall become effective ninety (90) days after the termination statement is filed with the City Clerk, except that a domestic partnership shall terminate immediately upon the death of one of the partners; and provided, however, that all rights and benefits extended to dependents of a domestic partnership shall survive termination of the domestic partnership if the domestic partner through whom the dependent obtains the right or benefit continues to have responsibility for the welfare of the dependent. In the event of the death of one of the domestic partners, the surviving partner shall notify the City Clerk by sending the City Clerk a copy of the death certificate. Any person
	1216
12-9A	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-9A
filing a termination statement must declare under penalty of perjury that (1) the domestic partnership is terminated and (2) that the other domestic partner has been notified either personally or by mailing a copy of the termination statement to the other domestic partner’s last and usual address by certified mail.	d.	New Statements of Domestic Partnership. No person may file a statement of domestic partnership until any previous domestic partnership of which they were a member has been effectively terminated.(Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 2)	12-9A.3	City Clerk.	a.	Records. The City Clerk shall maintain adequate records of domestic partnership statements showing which domestic partnerships have been created, terminated, and amended. The City Clerk shall provide forms as necessary to those who request them.	b.	Fees for Statements.		1.	The City Clerk shall charge a fee for filing a domestic partnership statement. The amount of this fee shall be equivalent to the fee charged to file a marriage license.		2.	Copies of a domestic partnership statement, certified by the City Clerk, or copies of amendment or termination statements, certified by the City Clerk, shall cost twelve ($12.00) dollars per copy.(Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 3; Ord. 1997 c. 4, Ch. 2 § 3; Ord. 2003 c. 5 § 1)	12-9A.4	Visitation and Other Rights.	a.	Health Care Facilities. All public health care facilities in Boston, including but not limited to hospitals, convalescent facilities, mental health care facilities or other long term care facilities, shall afford domestic partners the same visitation rights as afforded to a spouse or parent of a patient, and shall afford dependents of the domestic partnership the same visitation rights as afforded to a patient’s child. For the purpose of visitation rights pursuant to this section, an individual who is a registered as a domestic partner in the City of Boston or as a dependent of a domestic partnership, but who cannot produce documentation of such registration, shall be
afforded such recognition, during periods of time when the City Clerk’s office is not open for business, upon the submission to the health care facility of a statement signed under penalty of perjury that the individual meets the requirements of a domestic partner or dependent as defined in this section. This statement shall have no other effect beyond providing the individual with visitation rights equivalent to those of a spouse, child or parent of a patient. It shall be the responsibility of the health care facility to inform individuals of this right upon denial of visitation where a spouse, child or parent would have been afforded visitation rights;	b.	Jail, Prison, and Juvenile Correction Centers Visitation. All jails, prisons and juvenile correction centers under the jurisdiction of the City of Boston shall afford domestic partners the same visitation rights afforded to a spouse or parent of an inmate, and shall afford dependents of the domestic partnership the same visitation rights afforded to an inmate’s child. For the purpose of visitation rights pursuant to this section, an individual who is registered as a domestic partner in the City of Boston or as a dependent of a domestic partnership, but who cannot produce documentation of such registration, shall be afforded such recognition, during periods of time when the City Clerk’s office is not open for business, upon the submission to the jail, prison or juvenile correction center of a statement signed under penalty of perjury that the individual meets the requirements of a domestic partner or dependent as defined in this section. This statement shall have no other effect beyond providing the individual with visitation rights equivalent to those of a spouse, child or parent of an inmate. It shall be the responsibility of the jail, prison or juvenile correction center to inform individuals of this right upon denial of visitation where a spouse, child or parent would have been afforded visitation rights;	c.	Schools and Day Care Centers.		1.	All public schools and public day care centers in Boston shall afford both members of a domestic partnership equal access to records pertaining to a dependent of the domestic partnership to the extent permissible under State Law. Such schools and day care centers shall afford both members of a domestic partnership the same rights and access to employees in matters concerning their dependent to which any biological parent of a child 
Rev. 1/30/04 Supp. 3	1217
12-9A	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-9A
enrolled in that school or day care center would be entitled.		2.	All such schools and day care centers shall consider dependents of a domestic partnership to be siblings, and shall treat them in the same manner they treat siblings of any other family.(Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 4)	12-9A.5	Limitation of Liabilities.	Nothing in this section shall be construed to create additional legal liabilities greater than those already existing under law or to create any new private causes of action. (Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 5)	12-9A.6	Retaliation.	No person who seeks the benefit of this section, registers pursuant to its provisions, or assists another person in obtaining the benefits of this section shall be discriminated against in any way for doing so. Any person who so discriminates shall be penalized in accordance with the provisions of the Boston Human Rights Ordinance. (Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 6)	12-9A.7	Severability.	The provisions of this section are severable. If any of its provisions are held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 7)	12-9A.8	Forms.	The City Clerk shall distribute copies of the forms following this section to those who request them. Said forms shall be considered a part this section, and consist of the following:	a.	Statement of Domestic Partnership;	b.	Statement of Terminating Domestic Partnership; 	c.	Statement of Additional Dependents.(Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 8)Editor’s Note:	The copies of the forms referred to herein may	  be found at the end of this section.
	12-9A.9	Employee Health Insurance Study.	The City of Boston shall conduct a study of:	a.	Possible cost-saving measures which would reduce the City’s costs for the provision of health insurance benefits to its employees; and	b.	Costs and other issues related to the extension of health insurance benefits to City employees’ domestic partners and their dependents.	This study shall be completed, and copies shall be made available to the City Council, by June 30, 1994.(Ord. 1993 c. 12 § 9)
	1218
12-9A	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-9ACITY OF BOSTONOFFICE OF THE CITY CLERKStatement of Domestic PartnershipWe,                                                                            	Full name	Date of Birth:	          /       /          					Month/Day/Yearand                                                                             	Full name	Date of Birth:	          /       /          					Month/Day/Yeardeclare that:	(1)	we share basic living expenses;	(2)	we assume responsibility for each other’s welfare and for the welfare of any dependents listed below;	(3)	we are at least eighteen years of age;	(4)	we are competent to enter into a contract;	(5)	we are each other’s sole domestic partner;	(6)	we are not married to anyone, nor related to each other by blood closer than would bar marriage in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; and	(7)	we shall notify the City Clerk of any change in the status of our domestic partnership.We became each other’s domestic partner on                                                        Our domestic partnership is a family which includes the following dependents	                                                                                	                                                                                	                                                                                	                                                                                	                                                                                I declare under the pains and penalties of perjury that to the best of my knowledge the foregoing statements are true and correct.Signed:                                                                            Printed Name:                                                                  Date:                                                                                Signed:                                                                            Printed Name:                                                                  Date:                                                                               	1219
12-9A	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-9ACITY OF BOSTONOFFICE OF THE CITY CLERKStatement of Terminating Domestic PartnershipI declare that:	(1)	                                                              and I are		  Full name of domestic partnerNo longer domestic partners; and	(2)	I notified my former domestic partner of this statement in person/by certified mail (please circle one) on		                                                              		DateI declare under the pains and penalties of perjury that to the best of my knowledge the foregoing statements are true and accurate.Signed:                                                                          Printed Full Name:                                                           Date:                                                                             	1220
12-9A	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-9ACITY OF BOSTONOFFICE OF THE CITY CLERKStatement of Additional DependentsOur domestic partnership/extended family (circle appropriate term) now includes the following additional dependents:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I declare under the pains and penalties of perjury that to the best of my knowledge the foregoing statements are true and correct.Signed:                                                                               Printed Full Name:                                                               Date:                                                                                  	1221
12-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-10
12-10	ESTABLISHING THE BOSTON EMPLOYMENT COMMISSION.	12-10.1	Preamble: Policy of the City of Boston.	There is a need to ensure that Boston residents receive maximum benefits from the growing private economy of their city and the economic resurgence of office, hotel, retail, institutional, and unsubsidized residential development, including the permanent jobs which emanate from this economic expansion; and	There is unemployment and underemployment in the City of Boston, both among majority and minority residents; and	Boston is experiencing a resurgence in its economy that is creating the potential for unprecedented economic opportunity; and	Boston has fully established itself as the economic center for the entire New England region and is generating wealth and revenues for people throughout the region; and	One principal aspect of a strong and vibrant city is the ability of its breadwinners to gain access to secure jobs that pay a living wage; and	Black, Hispanic, Asian and Native American residents of the City of Boston, as well as women residents have historically been underrepresented in the workforce; and	An Ordinance establishing the Boston Residents Jobs Policy, Ordinances of 1983, Chapter 30, was promulgated to insure that Boston residents, minorities, and women receive job preference in projects that have City funds or State or Federal funds administered by the city; and the Mayor issued as Executive Order relating to the Boston Residents Jobs Policy, dated July 12, 1985, which established Resident Construction Employment Standards to further ensure employment for Boston residents, minorities, and women; and Under the Boston Residents Jobs Policy, Boston residents are enjoying greatly improved access to jobs in the downtown construction industry; and
	It is the policy of this City government to ensure that all people enjoy fair and open access to employment in permanent jobs in the private sector; and	It can be shown that broader cooperation from the private sector can produce meaningful employment opportunities for Boston residents who want and need them; and	Job placement is contingent upon proper job training and without necessary skills some Boston residents cannot secure permanent jobs; and	It is essential to the success of the 1983 Boston Residents Jobs Policy Ordinance and the 1985 Mayor’s Executive Order that projects and employment plans be monitored, that findings be made with respect to compliance, and that recommendations for sanctions be determined, and that all this be done in a manner that provides for the due process rights of all parties; and	It is essential to engender an atmosphere of cooperation between the public and private sectors with respect to permanent jobs for Boston residents, minorities, and women; and	The following is declared to be in the public interest.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 Preamble.)Editor’s Note:	This ordinance is codified as Section 8-9,	  Boston Residents Jobs Policy.	12-10.2	Definitions.	For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply, unless the context otherwise requires:	Best Efforts shall mean that developers and contractors may rely on traditional referral methods in the hiring of journeymen, apprentices, advanced trainees and helpers. Developers and contractors also shall implement affirmative action steps which include the following to the extent that such steps do not conflict with any applicable collective bargaining agreements:
	1222
12-10	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-10
	a.	As to Contractors:		1.	The contractor shall designate and shall require each subcontractor to designate an individual to serve as a compliance officer for the purpose of pursuing the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards (“Standards”).		2.	Prior to the start of construction, the contractor and each subcontractor then selected shall meet with appropriate representatives of the construction trade unions, representatives from Mayor’s Office of Jobs and Community Services, and the awarding or contracting authority for the purpose of reviewing the Standards and the estimated employment requirements for construction activity over the construction period of the Covered Project.	3.	Whenever any person involved in the construction of a Covered Project makes a request to a union hiring hall, business agent or contractor’s association for qualified construction workers, the request shall ask that those qualified applicants referred for construction positions be referred in the proportions specified in the Boston Resident Construction Employment Standards and shall, further, contain a recitation of such Standards. However, if the requesting party’s workforce composition at any time falls short of any one or more of the proportions specified in the Standards, the requesting party shall adjust his or her request so as to seek to more fully achieve the proportions specified in the Standards. If the union hiring hall, business agent or contractor’s association to whom a request for qualified employees has been made fails to fully comply with such request, the requesting party’s compliance officer shall seek written confirmation from the hall, agent or association that there are insufficient employees in the categories specified in the request and that such insufficiency is documented on the unemployed list maintained by the hall, agent or association. Copies of any confirmation so obtained shall be forwarded to the Commission. Copies of any requests for qualified employees made at a time that the requesting party’s workforce composition falls short of any one or more of such Standards shall be forwarded contemporaneously to the Skills Bank.	4.	All persons applying directly to the Contractor or any subcontractor for employment in construction on a Covered Project who are not 
employed by the party to whom application is made shall be referred by said party to the Mayor’s Office of Jobs and Community Services, and a written record of such referral shall be made by said party, a copy of which shall be sent to such Office of Jobs and Community Services.	5.	Contractor shall maintain a current file of the names, addresess, and telephone numbers of each Boston resident, minority, and woman who has sought employment with respect to a Covered Project, or who was referred to the contractor by the Mayor’s Office of Jobs and Community Services but was not hired. The contractor shall maintain a record of the reason any such person was not hired. If the construction of the Covered Project is subject to any union collective bargaining agreements, it shall be required that the employee complies with any lawful union security clauses contained in such agreement.	6.	The Contractor shall in a timely manner complete and submit to the Commission a projection of work force needs over the course of the construction of the Covered Project. Such a submission shall reflect needs by trade for each month of the construction process.	7.	The contractor shall obtain from each worker employed in the construction of the Covered Project a sworn statement containing the worker’s name and place of residence.	8.	One week following the commencement of construction of the project, and each week thereafter until such work is completed, the contractor shall complete and submit to the Mayor’s Office of Jobs and Community Services for the week just ended a report which reflects (a) for each employee, the employee’s name, place of residence, race, gender, trade and the total number of worker hours he or she worked, and (b) the total worker hours of its total workforce.	9.	The contractor and each subcontractor shall maintain records reasonably necessary to ascertain compliance with the steps detailed in subparagraph 1 through 8 hereof for at least one year after the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the Covered Project. In its review of records of a construction project submitted to demonstrate compliance with these steps, the Commission shall take into consideration any affirmative action outreach 
	1223
12-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-10
programs and affirmative action job training program of the particular trades participating in the Covered Project.	b.	As to Developers:		1.	Developers of Covered Projects shall incorporate in every general construction contract or construction management agreement an enumeration of the Standards and shall impose a responsibility upon any such general contractor or construction manager to take all steps enumerated in subparagraph 1 through 9 in paragraph a of this subsection and to incorporate such Standards in all subcontracts and impose upon all subcontractors the obligation to take such steps.		2.	The developer shall meet with the contractor no less frequently than weekly throughout the period of construction of the Covered Project to review the contractor’s compliance with such Standards and steps. The developer shall maintain minutes of such meetings and shall forward a copy of such minutes to the Mayor’s Office of Jobs and Community Services within ten (10) days of each such meeting.		3.	The developer shall comply with the escrow deposit requirements of subsection 12-10.9 hereof.	Boston Employment Commission, hereinafter “Commission” shall mean there shall be in the City a Commission known as the Boston Employment Commission, consisting of seven (7) members, all appointed by the Mayor. The Commission shall have the powers and duties set forth in subsection 12-10.4 herein. The members of the Commission shall be deemed special municipal employees for purposes of Chapter 268A of the Massachusetts General Laws.	Boston Resident shall mean any person for whom the principal place where that person normally eats and sleeps and maintains his or her normal personal and household effects is within the City limits of the City of Boston.	Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards shall mean the standards as contained below:
	a.	At least fifty (50%) percent of all worker-hours on a craft-by-craft basis in Covered Projects shall be worked by Boston Residents;	b.	At least twenty-five (25%) percent of all worker-hours on a craft-by-craft basis in Covered Projects shall be worked by Minority Persons;	c.	At least ten (10%) percent of all worker-hours on a craft-by-craft basis in Covered Projects shall be worked by women.	Boston Resident New Hire Goals shall mean that the commission will determine baseline hiring goals for Boston residents, minorities and women, such determination to be based upon a consideration of:	a.	Current workforce composition;	b.	The composition of the workforce that is unemployed;	c.	Numbers and categories of new job opportunities being created in Boston; and	d.	An examination of employment trends in Boston over the last five (5) years.	The Commission shall reevaluate annually, and modify if appropriate, such goals based upon the number of permanent full-time equivalent new hires of Boston residents, minorities and women during the previous calendar year.	Covered Projects shall mean all projects, contracts, or agreements within the jurisdiction of:	a.	The Boston Residents Jobs Policy, Ordinances of 1983, Chapter 30 (hereinafter referred to as “Jobs Ordinance”) and for which the contract or agreement is executed after the effective date of this section; and	b.	Any new construction or substantial rehabilitation project in the City to which any partial or full building permit has not already been issued for this specific construction or rehabilitation, dedicated to a retail, restaurant, and/or institutional use as defined in the Boston Zoning Code, which requires approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals and in which it is 
	1224
12-10	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-10
proposed to erect a structure or structures having a total gross floor area (exclusive of all accessory parking garage space) in excess of one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or to enlarge or extend a structure or structures so as to increase its (or their) gross floor area (exclusive of all accessory parking garage space) by more than one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or to substantially rehabilitate a structure or structures having, or to have, after rehabilitation, a gross floor area (exclusive of accessory parking garage space) of more than one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.	Major Employer shall mean any corporation, partnership, individual, or institution which employs more than five hundred (500) people to work within the City of Boston.	Mayor’s Office of Jobs and Community Services hereinafter “OJCS”, shall mean the agency within the City of Boston government responsible for compiling compliance information in accordance with the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards and the Minority Business Enterprise/Women’s Business Enterprise Programs.	Minority Business Enterprise (“MBE”) shall mean a business organization in which fifty-one (51%) percent in the aggregate of the beneficial ownership is held by one or more minority persons.	Womens’ Business Enterprise (“WBE”) shall mean a business organization in which fifty-one (51%) percent in the aggregate of the beneficial ownership is held by one or more women.	Minority Person or Minority shall mean any person who is Black, Hispanic, Asian, or Native American, as these terms are defined by the United States Census Bureau.	Permanent Job shall mean any full-time position, or its equivalent, that an employer would fill year-round and continue to fill indefinitely in a particular location.	Skills Bank shall mean a job screening and referral bank maintained by OJCS, which shall refer residents to available jobs and/or to appropriate training programs, including but not limited to, programs offered at the Hubert Humphrey Occupational Resource Center.
	Voluntary Employment Plan shall mean any plan to promote hiring for jobs in Boston of Boston residents, minorities, and/or women developed by a Major Employer or a group of Major Employers.	Worker-Hours shall mean the sum total of all hours worked by all persons performing construction work.(Ord. 1986 c. 12, § 1; Ord, 1986 c. 17, § 1)Editor’s Note:	This ordinance is codified as Section 8-9,	  Boston Residents Jobs Policy.	12-10.3	Scope of Jurisdiction.	The Commission’s jurisdiction shall extend to: (1) Covered Projects and (2) assistance in the formulation and monitoring of Voluntary Employment Plans.(Ord. 1986 c. 12, § 2)	12-10.4	Powers and Duties.	a.	Covered Projects.		1.	The Commission shall make determinations as to compliance by developers and contractors with the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards. The Commission shall gather and receive compliance information from OJCS, investigate noncompliance complaints, make compliance determinations and, where appropriate, shall recommend sanctions to the awarding or contracting authority. The Commission may gather compliance information at any time and shall make compliance determinations in phases for each Covered Project in accordance with Subsections 12-10.6, 12-10.7 and 12-10.8 herein. For projects under construction upon the passage of this section, all existing contracts and agreements shall remain in full force and effect and the provisions of this section shall not otherwise apply.		2.	The Commission shall have the authority to require developers of Covered Projects to submit: (i) detailed plans which show how the developer intends to meet the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards; and (ii) detailed plans which show how the developer intends to meet MBE/WBE goals contained in or applicable to City contracts.
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1225
12-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-10
		3.	In the review of such detailed plans, the Commission shall consider any affirmative action outreach programs and affirmative action job training programs of the particular trades participating in the Covered Project and participation, if any, of the developer or the contractor in any such program.		4.	The Commission shall monitor MBE/WBE goals contained in or applicable to City contracts. The Commission shall receive compliance information from OJCS and shall recommend to the awarding or contracting authority appropriate remedies for noncompliance.		5.	The Commission shall monitor Davis-Bacon Act requirements contained in City agency or authority contracts. The Commission shall receive compliance information and shall forward any information concerning apparent noncompliance to appropriate federal agencies.	b.	Voluntary Employment Plans.		1.	The Commission shall meet with a group of representatives of major Employers to review voluntary aggregate hiring goals set by said employers.		2.	The Commission shall receive information concerning the success in meeting the voluntary aggregate hiring goals. The Commission shall encourage a group representing the Major Employer to issue an annual public report on the success of this effort and of voluntary business programs such as Boston Summer Jobs program, the Boston Compact and Boston Works.		3.	The Commission shall encourage Major Employers to adopt Voluntary Employment Plans, which promote a collaboration between the public and private sectors to expand employment opportunities for Boston residents, minorities and women. The Commission shall encourage Major Employers to incorporate the Boston Resident New Hire Goals in their Voluntary Employment Plans. The Commission shall advise OJCS and other City agencies of the amounts and types of assistance identified by Major Employers as being necessary to achieve the goals included in their Voluntary Employment Plans. Such assistance may include, but is not limited to, job training, adult literacy and referral services. The Commission may conduct surveys to assess the progress made toward hiring goals as to Boston residents, minorities and women.
	c.	General.		1.	The Commission shall have the authority to promulgate regulations as to matters within the Commission’s purview after public notice and hearing and upon a majority vote of all members.		2.	The Commission shall cause to be created, in conjunction with the Mayor’s Office of Jobs and Community Services, a job training program. Said job training program shall be conducted at the appropriate sites which may include the Hubert Humphrey Occupational Resource Center, or its successor, or other appropriate skills training facilities. The purpose of said training program is to provide skills training to any Boston Resident in order to be fully qualified for entry into existing apprenticeship programs or jobs. Subject to appropriation by the Mayor and the City Council, any fines levied against the escrow fund set out in subsection 12-10.9 shall be for the benefit of this job training program and no other.		3.	The Commission shall make available online from the City's website a searchable and sortable database, updated monthly, of Covered Projects that provides, for each project, the project name; the developers, contractors and subcontractors; information on actual numbers and percentage data of employed Boston residents, minority and women workers by trade; the address of the project site; and contact information for the project's hiring officer.  The Commission shall work in conjunction with the Boston Redevelopment Authority to develop these reports for the inclusion of any additional construction projects and to maintain the online database.(Ord. 1986 c. 12, § 3; Ord. 2010 c. 9)	12-10.5	Composition.	The Commission shall be composed of seven (7) members, all of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor. The Commission shall be representative of the interests of business, minorities, women, organized labor, Boston Building Trades Council, and the Mayor’s Jobs Liaison Committee. Members of the Commission shall have demonstrated commitment to equal employment opportunity. All members of the Commission shall be Boston residents or shall maintain their principal place of business in Boston.	a.	Term of Office. Commission members shall be appointed to two-year terms, and members shall serve until their successors are duly appointed. If a 
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1226
12-10	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-10
vacancy on the Commission occurs before a term expires, that vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor for the balance of the unexpired term.	b.	Removal. The Mayor may remove a member for just cause by filing a written statement to that effect with the City Clerk. Reasons for just cause shall include but not be limited to a pattern of nonattendance, lack of residency or employment in the City of Boston, noncompliance with the procedures established under Subsection 12-10.6 herein, failure to disclose conflicts of interest, incapacity due to illness, or conviction of a crime. The Mayor’s determination that just cause for removal exists shall be conclusive.	c.	Chair. The Chairperson of the Commission shall be designated by the Mayor and shall serve in that capacity for a term of two (2) years.	d.	Quorum. In no event shall a quorum be fewer than four (4) members of the Commission.	e.	Voting. Every vote of the Commission shall require an affirmative vote of no fewer than four (4) members of the Commission.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 4)	12-10.6	Procedures. 	Actions or determinations under subsection 12-10.8, 12-10.9 or 12-10.10 herein shall be taken or made in accordance with the following administrative procedures:	a.	Hearing and Notice to Parties. A party subject to the jurisdiction and recommendation power of the Commission shall be entitled to a hearing and shall be given at least fourteen (14) calendar days notice of any such hearing directly affecting his or her interests, such notice to be in writing to the party and sent by mail, postage prepaid, first class, to the party’s usual place of business.	b.	Method. Decisions to recommend sanctioning a party shall require a majority vote of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt procedures, voted by a majority of all members, to establish the time, place, and manner for its members to meet and vote and for making determinations of compliance and recommendations to awarding authorities or agencies. All protections necessary to fulfill due process 
requirements shall be incorporated in the aforementioned procedures. Such procedures and any revisions to such procedures shall be submitted in writing to the Mayor and OJCS within twenty-one (21) calendar days of their scheduled adoption.	c.	Public Meetings. The Commission shall be subject to the requirements of the Massachusetts Open Meetings Law, G.L. c. 39, s 23A—C.	d.	Records. The Commission shall keep records of its meetings and shall record no less than the following: the time and place of the meeting; the topic(s) discussed at the meeting; members in attendance at the meeting; any votes taken; and any disclosure by members of conflicts of interest. The Chairperson or his or her designee shall maintain such records in a good and legible condition. The records shall be available for inspection by any member of the public upon reasonable notice.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 5)	12-10.7	Standards for Compliance.	The Commission shall use the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards to monitor compliance of Covered Projects with this section. A Covered Project shall be deemed to be in compliance if (1) the statistical monitoring data at the relevant determination date, set forth in Subsection 12-10.8 hereof shows compliance with the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards; or (2) if the Commission determines that Best Efforts have been made to comply with the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 6)	12-10.8	Determination of Compliance.	The Commission shall make determination as to compliance by developers and contractors of Covered Projects with the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards at time intervals as set out in one of the following two (2) schedules, whichever allows for more frequent determinations:	a.	When the Covered Project is twenty-five (25%), fifty (50%), seventy-five (75%) and one hundred (100%) percent complete, or,	b.	Every three (3) months from the date of commencement of the Covered Project.
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1227
12-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-10
	“Percent complete” shall be measured by the percentage of the total worker hours expected to be worked on the project. The Commission shall monitor that percentage and shall include it in its monitoring reports.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 7)	12-10.9	Establishment of Escrow Fund.	An escrow fund shall be established for each project which is a Covered Project, as defined in Subsection 12-10.2 paragraph b “Covered Projects”, herein. Payment into the escrow fund shall be made by the developer when the developer secures permanent financing for the Covered Project. The developer shall pay into the escrow fund an amount equal to one-tenth of one (.1%) percent of the total construction cost of the project as stated in the building permit application for the Covered Project; provided, however, that if either the developer or contractor has been subject to a determination of noncompliance at more than two (2) determination dates in any prior Covered Project in which they have participated in the preceding twenty-four (24) months, the amount of the escrow fund required for the Covered Project shall be two-tenths of one (.2%) percent of such construction cost. The developer shall deposit these funds with an escrow agent agreed upon by the parties pursuant to an escrow agreement to which the Commission, the awarding or contracting agency and the developer are parties, who shall hold said fund for the purpose of satisfying any accrued fines levied in relation to a project.	The escrow agent, at the time of deposit into the escrow account, shall deduct all fines which have accrued against the fund to that date. There shall be a written escrow agreement detailing the terms under which the escrow funds are held. Such agreement shall provide, at a minimum, that any demand for payment from the escrow account which is made upon the escrow agent by the awarding or contracting authority shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by a written statement of the reason for such demand, including any factual findings supporting such reason. The demand shall further instruct the escrow agent that he/she is to take no action on the demand for at least forty-eight (48) hours after receipt. A copy of the demand shall be simultaneously served upon all other parties to the escrow agreement.
	Interest, if any, accrued by the fund, shall remain in and become a part of the escrow fund until such time as the fund shall be released. When all necessary permits for the use of the building have been issued to the developer, including but not limited to an occupancy permit and a finding of compliance has been made by the Commission, all monies in the escrow fund, including any accrued interest, shall be released and returned to the developer.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 8)	12-10.10	Sanctions.	The Commission shall have the authority to recommend to the awarding or contracting agency that sanction against the developers and contractors of Covered Projects be imposed for noncompliance with the Boston Residents Construction Employment Standards and/or for non-compliance with paragraph a, 2 of Subsection 12-10.4. The Commission shall recommend the imposition of any or all three (3) of the following sanctions:	a.	Fine to a maximum of three hundred ($300.00) dollars for each violation as determined by the Commission when such developer or contractor was not in compliance, as defined in Subsection 12-10.7, each day of non-compliance to be considered as a separate violation, to be levied against the escrow fund as established by Subsection 12-10.9 herein, provided that fines may still be levied and will still be due if the escrow account is exhausted;	b.	Preclusions from the award of municipal contracts and competitions for public development rights for a period of up to three (3) years, provided that this sanction may only be recommended at the completion of the Covered Project; or	c.	Sanctions as authorized by the Jobs Ordinance or incorporated in contracts.	The recommendation of sanctions under this subsection shall not preclude and shall be in addition to any action or sanction authorized by contract or agreement or otherwise authorized by law.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 9)
	1228
12-10	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-11
	12-10.11	Staffing.	The Commission shall have staff consistent with the Commission’s purpose. The Director of OJCS shall be the Executive Director of the Commission, provided, however, that said Director shall be wholly compensated for his/her duties as Director from the budget of OJCS.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 10)	12-10.12	Conflicts of Interest.	No member shall appear before the Commission or represent any person, firm, corporation or other entity in any matter pending before the Commission. Members shall not participate in a discussion or a decision of the Commission on any matter in which they are directly or indirectly interested in a personal or a financial sense. Any disclosure of conflict of interest shall be entered into the records of the Commission.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 11)	12-10.13	Severability.	The provisions of this section are severable, and if any provision shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction such invalidity shall not impair, or otherwise affect, any other provisions of this section.(Ord. 1986 c. 12 § 12)	12-10.14	Effective Date.	This section shall take effect thirty (30) days after enactment.(Ord. 1986 c. 13 § 13)Editor’s Note:	This section was enacted on August 12, 1986.12-11	NEIGHBORHOOD JOBS TRUST.	12-11.1	Policy of the City of Boston.	The construction or rehabilitation of new large-scale real estate development projects in the City of Boston, especially in conjunction with other market forces, results in lost employment opportunities for Boston’s low or moderate income residents who have 
their existing employment or promotional opportunities diminished, or who are unable to successfully compete for new employment opportunities resulting from such construction or rehabilitation. The existence of such unemployment or underemployment in the City of Boston constitutes a serious and growing menace, injurious and inimical to the safety, health, morals and welfare of the residents of the City of Boston and sound growth of the City of Boston; and the existence of such lack of adequate employment opportunities contributes substantially to crime necessitating excessive and disproportionate expenditure of public funds for the preservation of the public health and safety, for crime prevention, correction, prosecution, punishment, and the treatment of juvenile delinquency and for the maintenance of adequate police, fire and accident protection and other public services and facilities, which constitutes an economic and social liability, substantially impairs or arrests the sound growth of the City of Boston. Because of the economic and social interdependence of different areas within the City of Boston, the full employment of all those who can and wish to work not only in the “downtown” commercial areas but also in decadent areas is necessary in order to: promote the sound growth of the City of Boston; to achieve permanent and comprehensive elimination of existing slums and substandard and decadent conditions; and to prevent the recurrence of such substandard or decadent conditions or their development in other parts of the City of Boston; and the abandonment of existing industries and employment opportunities in such areas exacerbates decadent or substandard conditions; and the menace of underemployment or unemployment is beyond remedy and control solely by the regulatory process in the exercise of the police power and such menace has not been dealt with effectively by the ordinary operations of private enterprise. Limited public resources require that government dollars for job training, re-training, adult literacy and job counseling programs be highly leveraged by private investment; and the development of employment training and employment opportunities eliminating underemployment and unemployment in the City of Boston is a public use and purpose for which public money may be expended; and the aforesaid conditions have not been corrected by the ordinary operations of private enterprise in a regulated market; now, the following is declared to be in the public interest.(Ord. 1987 c. 11 Preamble)
	1229
12-11	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-12
	12-11.2	Establishment of Neighborhood Jobs Trust.	The Collector-Treasurer shall establish the “Neighborhood Jobs Trust”, which trust shall be established in the form and manner of the attached Declaration of Trust. Subject to approval by the City Council and the Mayor, the Neighborhood Jobs Trust is hereby authorized to accept and expend any and all funds contributed to it consistent with the purposes of the attached Declaration of Trust.(Ord. 1987 c. 11 § 1 T12)Editor’s Note:	The text of the Declaration of Trust is on file in	  the Office of the City Clerk.12-12	HIRING OF STRIKEBREAKERS OR REPLACEMENT WORKERS.Editor’s Note:	This ordinance (Chapter 8 of 1990) was found	  to be unconstitutional and pre-empted by	  federal laws, by judgment of the U.S. District	  Court for the District of Massachusetts, dated	  March 23, 1992, in the case of Greater	  Boston Chamber of Commerce v. City of	  Boston, 778 F. Supp. 95 (991).	12-12.1	Policy.	It shall be the policy of the City of Boston in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 40 Sec. 21 to regulate the conduct of employers who attempt to replace employees who are members of or are associated with a labor organization in order to protect the safety, convenience, and peaceful enjoyment of the residents, visitors, and tourists of the City of Boston.(Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 1)	12-12.2	Definitions.	When used in this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:	a.	Employee shall mean any person who performs services for wages or salary under a contract of employment, express or implied, for an employer.	b.	Employer shall mean any individual, partnership, or corporation who employs any 
employee to perform services for a wage or salary and includes any agent of any employer acting directly or indirectly.	c.	Labor organization shall mean any organization of any kind or any agency or employee representation committee or plan in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment or conditions of work.	d.	Lockout shall mean a refusal by an employer to permit his employees to work as a result of a dispute with such employees that affects wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment of said employees, provided, however, that a lockout shall not include a termination of employment for reasons deemed proper under Massachusetts State and Federal law.	e.	Replacement worker shall mean any individual hired for the purpose of replacing either permanently or temporarily an employee who is currently engaged in a lawful strike or who is locked out by his or her employer.	f.	Strike shall mean any concerted act of the employees in a lawful refusal of the employees to perform work or services for the employer, provided such acts are not recognized as unlawful under Massachusetts State or federal law, and if the employees are represented by a labor organization, that the said labor organization shall have approved or sanctioned the act.	g.	Strikebreaker shall mean any person who customarily and repeatedly offers himself or herself for employment for the duration of a strike or lockout in the place of an employee involved in a strike or lockout.(Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 2)	12-12.3	Unlawful Conduct.	a.	It shall be unlawful in the City of Boston for any employer willfully and knowingly to employ any strikebreaker to replace employees who are either on strike against or locked out by such employer.
	1230
12-12	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-13
	b.	It shall be unlawful in the City of Boston for any employer not directly involved in a strike or lockout to recruit, secure or offer to secure employment for any strikebreaker or, any replacement worker where it is found that such action is likely to cause a threat to the public safety, violence, or harm to persons or property.	c.	It shall be unlawful in the City of Boston for any employer to employ one or more replacement workers, where it is found that such hiring of replacement workers is likely to cause a threat to the public safety, violence, or harm to persons or property.	d.	The findings required under paragraphs b. and c. of this subsection shall be satisfied either by:		1.	Deployment by the Boston Police Department of detail officers or regular officers in order to preserve the public peace, prevent violence, prevent intimidation, or prevent threats to the public safety in association with a strike or a lockout, or		2.	A determination by the Police Commissioner that one (1) or more actions taken in association with hiring replacement workers is likely to cause a threat to the public peace or public safety, violence, intimidation, or harm to persons or property.(Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 3)  Penalty, see subsection 12-12.4	12-12.4	Penalties.	In accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. Ch. 50 Sec. 21, the Police Commissioner of the City of Boston shall enforce the provisions of this section. Each strikebreaker or replacement worker employed, recruited or secured for employment, and each attempt or offer to recruit or secure employment, in violation of any provision of the unlawful conduct subsection of this section, shall be construed as a separate and succeeding offense. Each day or part thereof of violation of any provision of the unlawful conduct subsection of this section, whether such violation be continuous or intermittent, shall be construed as a separate and succeeding offense. Each violation shall carry a penalty of two hundred ($200.00) dollars.(Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 4)
	12-12.5	Effective Date.	This section shall take effect immediately upon passage.(Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 5)	12-12.6	Severability.	The provisions of this section shall be severable and if any one (1) or more provisions, or parts or subparts thereof, shall be held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions or parts thereof.(Ord. 1990 c. 8 § 6)12-13	PARENTAL SCHOOL LEAVE.	12-13.1	Definitions.	Employer shall mean the owner and/or proprietor of a business with twenty-five (25) or more employees working at any same location.	Parents shall mean the biological and/or adopted parents of a child attending the Boston public schools or a legal guardian of a child attending the Boston public schools.	Pupil shall mean any child attending the Boston public school system.	Schools shall mean all public schools in the City of Boston funded entirely or partially by the City of Boston.(Ord. 1994 c. 13 § 1)	12-13.2	Legislative Intent.	This section would allow parents of school-aged pupils in kindergarten and grades one (1) to twelve (12) an opportunity to spend up to three (3) days per year for school visits if the employee, prior to taking off, gives reasonable notice to the employer of the planned absence of the employee. The section would require an employee to utilize existing vacation, personal leave or compensatory time off for purposes of this planned absence, unless otherwise provided by 
	1231
12-13	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-14
a collective bargaining agreement, and/or agreed upon by the employee and employer and, if requested by the employer, to provided documentation, as prescribed, from the school as proof of these visits. All employers, notwithstanding staff size, are encouraged to grant employees up to three (3) days per year with pay.(Ord. 1994 c. 13 § 2)	12-13.3	Operation of Section.	No employer, who employs twenty-five (25) or more employees working at the same location, shall discharge or in anyway discriminate against an employee who is a parent or guardian of any child in kindergarten or grades one (1) to twelve (12), inclusive, for taking off up to three (3) days each school calender to visit the school of the pupil(s), if the employee, prior to taking time off, gives clear and reasonable notice to the employer of the planned absence of the employee. An employee shall utilize existing vacation, personal leave or compensatory time off for purposes of this planned absence, unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement. The employee, if requested by the employer, shall provide documentation from the school as proof that he or she visited the school on a specific date and at a particular time. For purposes of this subsection, “documentation” shall mean whatever written verification of a parental visit the school deems appropriate and reasonable.	Any employee who is discharged, demoted, threatened, suspended or in any other manner discriminated against in terms and conditions of employment by his or her employer because the employee has taken time off to visit the school or his or her child pursuant to the intent of this section shall be immediately entitled to reinstatement and reimbursement of lost wages and work benefits caused by the acts of the employer. Any employer who willfully refuses to rehire, promote or otherwise restore an employee or former employee who has been determined to be eligible for rehiring or promotion by a grievance procedure, arbitration or hearing authorized by law, shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount equal to five (5) times the amount of the employee’s lost wages and work benefits.(Ord. 1994 c. 13 § 3)
12-14	PROTECTIVE CUSTODY.	12-14.1	Purpose.	The Massachusetts General Laws authorize protective custody for incapacitated persons (M.G.L. c. 111B, s. 8). Incapacitated persons include those intoxicated individuals that are unconscious, in need of medical attention, likely to suffer physical harm, or likely to cause physical harm. In an effort to eliminate confusion, it is important to acknowledge that protective custody is not the legal equivalent of arrest/institution of criminal charges. Although detailed records of the event must be maintained, such records are not criminal records and are not treated as criminal records.	Furthermore, an alcohol-related arrest may occur simultaneously with protective custody. Although arrest procedures run concurrently with protective custody measures, they are separate and distinct. Therefore, a person arrested for OUI (a criminal offense) has the right to bail and release. If, however, such person is a danger to himself/herself as a result of intoxification then, despite the posting of bail, protective custody (i.e. not an arrest) may be triggered and such incapacitated person will not be released until such incapacitation dissolves and the person no longer poses a risk to himself/herself or the community. The legislative intent of this section is derived from this risk, and the City of Boston seeks to protect incapacitated persons and the community from the myriad harms that could result from incapacitation due to intoxification by strictly employing the protective custody procedures authorized by M.G.L. c. 111B. The legislative intent is effected by the provisions of this section which track the language of M.G.L. c. 111B, s. 8.(Ord. 2005 c. 3)	12-14.2	Definitions.	Unless specifically indicated otherwise, these definitions shall apply and control in CBC 12-14.	Facility means any public or private place, or portion thereof, providing services especially designed for the detoxification of intoxicated persons or alcoholics (M.G.L. c. 111B, s. 3).
Rev. 2/2/06 Supp. 5	1232
12-14	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-14
	Incapacitated means the condition of an intoxicated person who, by reason of the consumption of intoxicating liquor is (1) unconscious, (2) in need of medical attention, (3) likely to suffer or cause physical harm or damage property, or (4) disorderly (M.G.L. c. 111B, s. 3).(Ord. 2005 c. 3)	12-14.3	Protective Custody.	a.	Any person who is incapacitated shall be assisted by police officer with or without such person’s consent to his/her residence, to a facility, or to a police station. To determine, for purposes of these sections only, whether or not such person is intoxicated, the police officer may request the person to submit to reasonable tests of coordination, coherency of speech, and breath.	b.	Any person assisted by a police officer to a police station shall have the right, and be informed in writing of said right, to request and be administered a breathalyzer test. Any person who is administered a breathalyzer test shall be presumed intoxicated if evidence from said test indicates that the percentage of alcohol in his/her blood is ten one hundredths (0.10) or more and shall be placed in protective custody at a police station or transferred to a facility. Any person who is administered a breathalyzer test, under this section, shall be presumed not to be intoxicated if evidence from said test indicates that the percentage of alcohol in his/her blood is five one hundredths (0.05) or less and shall be released from custody forthwith. If any person who is administered a breathalyzer test, under this section, and evidence from said test indicates that the percentage of alcohol in his/her blood is more than five one hundredths (0.05) and is less than ten one hundredths (0.10) there shall be no presumption made based solely on the breathalyzer test. In such instance a reasonable test of coordination or speech coherency must be administered to determine if said person is intoxicated. Only when such test of coordination or speech coherency indicates said person is intoxicated shall he/she be placed in protective custody at a police station or transferred to a facility.	c.	Any person presumed intoxicated and to be held in protective custody at a police station shall, immediately after such presumption, have the right and be informed of said right to make one (1) phone call at his/her own expense and on his/her own behalf. Any person assisted by a police officer to a facility
under these sections shall have the right to make one (1) phone call at his/her own expense on his/her own behalf and shall be informed forthwith upon arriving at the facility of said right. The parent or guardian of any person, under the age of eighteen (18), to be held in protective custody at a police station shall be notified forthwith upon his/her arrival at said station or as soon as possible thereafter.	d.	If any incapacitated person is assisted to a police station, the officer in charge or his/her designee shall notify forthwith the nearest facility that the person is being held in protective custody. If suitable treatment services are available at a facility, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, in accordance with M.G.L. c. 111B, shall thereupon arrange for the transportation of the person to the facility in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. c. 111B, s. 7.	e.	No person assisted to a police station pursuant to these sections shall be held in protective custody against his/her will; provided, however, that if suitable treatment at a facility is not available, an incapacitated person may be held in protective custody at a police station until he/she is no longer incapacitated or for a period of not longer than twelve (12) hours, whichever is shorter.	f.	A police officer acting in accordance with the provisions of these sections and in accordance with the provisions of M.G.L. c. 111B may use such force as is reasonably necessary to carry out his/her authorized responsibilities. If the police officer reasonably believes that his/her safety or the safety of other persons present so requires, he/she may search such person and his/her immediate surroundings, but only to the extent necessary to discover and seize any dangerous weapons which may on that occasion be used against the officer or other person present; provided, however, that if such person is held in protective custody at a police station all valuables and all articles which may pose a danger to such person or to others may be taken from him/her for safekeeping and if so taken shall be inventoried.	g.	A person assisted to a facility or held in protective custody by the police pursuant to the provisions of these sections and M.G.L. c. 111B, s. 8, shall not be considered to have been arrested or to have been charged with any crime. An entry of custody shall be made indicating the date, time, place of custody, the name of the assisting officer, the name
Rev. 2/2/06 Supp. 5	1233
12-14	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	12-14
of the officer in charge, whether the person held in custody exercised his/her right to make a phone call, whether the person held in custody exercised his/her right to take a breathalyzer test, and the results of the breathalyzer test if taken, which entry shall not be treated for any purposes, as an arrest or criminal record.(Ord. 2005 c. 3)	12-14.4	Applicability.	If any provision of these sections imposes greater restrictions or obligations than those imposed by any other general law, special law, regulation, rule, ordinance, order, or policy then the provisions of these sections shall control.(Ord. 2005 c. 3)	12-14.5	Regulatory Authority.	The Commissioner of the Boston Police Department shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce these sections.(Ord. 2005 c. 3)	12-14.6	Severability.	If any provision of these sections shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2005 c. 3)	12-14.7	Implementation.	The provisions of these sections shall be effective immediately upon passage and all provisions shall be enforced immediately.(Ord. 2005 c. 3)12-15	CONCUSSIONS.	12-15.1	Concussion Prevention.	The provisions of this section shall be applicable to any elementary, middle or secondary school in the City of Boston, public or private, and any community center, public or private, which organizes and sponsors extracurricular athletic
activities including games and practices for its student athlete(s). "Student athlete" shall mean a student who prepares for or participates in an extracurricular athletic activity. "Extracurricular athletic activity" shall have the same meaning as that provided for in the Department of Public Health Regulations, 105 CMR 201.005, provided however, that the provisions of this section shall also be applicable to any community center that organizes and sponsors noninterscholastic youth sports programs for athletic competition or instruction for participants under the age of eighteen (18).	All schools and community centers shall ensure that all coaches, certified athletic trainers, trainers, volunteers, school and team physicians, school nurses, and athletic directors annually complete a head injury training program approved by the Department of Public Health as found on the Department's website. Schools and community centers may, in addition to on-line training programs approved by the Department, participate in live training programs that provide training in the recognition, management, response, and prevention of concussions and other sports-related head injuries.(Ord. 2012 c. 5 § 1)	12-15.2	Concussion Management.	A student athlete who sustains a head injury or suspected concussion, or exhibits signs and symptoms of a concussion, or loses consciousness even briefly, shall be removed from play by the student athlete's coach or certified athletic trainer as set forth in 105 CMR 201.010. The coach shall notify the parent or legal guardian of the student athlete as set forth in 105 CMR 201.010.	A student athlete who has been removed from play may not return to play until the student athlete receives appropriate medical clearance as set forth in 105 CMR 201.011.(Ord. 2012 c. 5 § 1)	12-15.3	Permitting Requirements.	Before the first use of a facility owned by the City of Boston, any independent athletic organization must certify on a form approved by the Boston Parks and Recreation Department or the Boston Center for Youth and Families that such organization requires training programs and has policies in place for its
Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	1234
12-14	PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE	12-14
coaches, athletes, referees, and athletic trainers including but not limited to the nature and risk of concussions and other sports-related head injuries; the prevention and management of such injuries; and, the criteria for removal from and return to physical participation. The independent athletic organization shall be responsible for verifying that its coaches, athletes, referees, and athletic trainers have received the required training and information and such organization shall be responsible for maintenance of such records.	Independent athletic organization shall mean a youth sports program organized for athletic competition or instruction for participants under the age of eighteen (18).(Ord. 2012 c. 5 § 1)

Rev. 3/1/13 Supp. 12	1235
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES		1236