	CHAPTER XV 	DIVISIONS OF THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
15-1	COMMISSION ON WOMEN.Editor's Note:	Ch. 35 of the Ordinance of 1984 established	  within the Mayor's Office a Division to be	  known as the Commission on Women. A	  decision of the Mass. Appeals Court 24 Mass.	  App. Ct. 633, presently under appeal,	  however held said ordinance invalid.15-2	HOME WEATHERIZATION PROGRAM.	15-2.1	Program Established; Purpose and Duties.	There shall be, within the Mayor's Office, a program to be known as the Home Weatherization Program. The Home Weatherization Program shall conduct public seminars on home weatherization in each district of the City of Boston; shall coordinate with private, nonprofit agencies the conduct of home energy audits for Boston grants, low interest loans and market rate-loans to be administered by local lending institutions and public utilities for residents of the City of Boston. The Home Weatherization Program shall, on May 1 of each year, submit a report on the program's activities covering the twelve (12) month period ending the previous March 31, to the Mayor and the City Council.(Ord. 1984 c. 25 § 1)	15-2.2	Administration by Neighborhood Development and Employment Agency.	The program described herein shall be administered totally by the Neighborhood Development and Employment Agency (NDEA) of the City of Boston.(Ord. 1984 c. 25 § 2)

15-3	OFFICE OF BUSINESS AND CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT.	15-3.1	Office Established; Appointment of Director.	There shall be within the Mayor's Office a Division to be known as the Office of Business and Cultural Development which shall be under the charge of an officer, known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and who shall have the powers of a department head with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within said office.(Ord. 1984 c. 15 § 1)Cross-reference:	See Section 2-7.1, Appointments by the Mayor	15-3.2	Powers and Duties.	The Office of Business and Cultural Development shall be responsible:	a.	To develop opportunities for new business for Boston's neighborhood's and its downtown area;	b.	To retain business and job opportunities;	c.	To promote trade, tourism and convention opportunities;	d.	To enhance the cultural aspects of life, particularly in Boston's neighborhoods;	e.	To conduct annual and special celebrations in such a way that the concerns are met as well as attracting business and cultural quality and revenue to the neighborhoods and the downtown area;	f.	To establish, promote, and support (with technical assistance) advisory groups to neighborhood,	1501
15-4	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	15-6
minority, women's and other business and cultural groups.(Ord. 1984 c. 15 § 2)15-4	OFFICE OF CONSTITUENT SERVICES.	15-4.1	Office Established; Appointment of Director.	There shall be within the Mayor's office a Division to be known as the Office of Constituent Services which shall be under the charge of an officer, known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and who shall have the powers of a department head with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within said office.(Ord. 1984 c. 14 § 1)	15-4.2	Powers and Duties.	The Office of Constituent Services will receive and respond to problems and requests for service by individuals and community groups. It will make referrals to City departments, where appropriate, for such services, or provide advice in regard to other levels of government or private sector agencies, if City services are not involved.	This office will coordinate the twenty-four (24) hour service emergency center.	It will make policy recommendations to the Mayor based on complaint information received from citizens.(Ord. 1984 c. 14 § 2)15-5	OFFICE OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS AND LICENSING.	15-5.1	Office Established; Appointment of Director.	There shall be within the Mayor's Office a Division to be known as the Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing which shall be under the charge of an officer, known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at the pleasure of the 
Mayor and who shall have the powers of a department head with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within said office.(Ord. 1984 c. 12 § 1)	15-5.2	Divisions Established; Duties.	The Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing shall contain two (2) divisions as follows:	a.	The Licensing Division which at the direction of the Mayor shall be responsible for the regulation of Boston's entertainment industry as set forth by applicable law;	b.	The Consumer Affairs Division which shall mediate, educate and advocate on behalf of the City's consumers.(Ord. 1984 c. 12 § 2)15-6	OFFICE OF INFORMATIONAL SERVICES.	15-6.1	Office Established; Appointment of Director.	There shall be within the Mayor's Office a Division to be known as the Office of Informational Services which shall be under the charge of an officer, known as the Director, appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and who shall have the powers of a department head with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within said office.(Ord. 1984 c. 13 § 1)	15-6.2	Powers and Duties.	The Office of Informational Services will initiate programs which improve public understanding of City government. Its programs shall be designed to enable citizens to take full advantage of the resources of municipal government at their disposal. It will also respond to requests for information about operations of City government coming from the public.(Ord. 1984 c. 13 § 2)
	1502
15-7	DIVISIONS OF THE MAYOR'S OFFICE	15-9
15-7	OFFICE OF POLICY MANAGEMENT.	15-7.1	Office Established; Appointment of Director.	There shall be within the Mayor's Office a Division to be known as the Office of Policy Management, which shall be under the charge of an officer to be known as the Director of the Office of Policy Management, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The Director shall have the powers of a department head with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within the office.(Ord. 1982 c. 30 § 1)	15-7.2	Duties.	The Office of Policy Management shall develop methods of implementing and of testing the efficiency and effectiveness of policies and programs of the Mayor and several City departments subject to the Mayor's supervision and control.(Ord. 1982 c. 30 § 1)15-8	OFFICE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION.	15-8.1	Office Established; Appointment of Director.	There shall be within the Mayor's Office a Division to be known as the Office of Public Information, which shall be under the charge of an officer to be known as the Director of the Office of Public Information, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The Director shall have the powers of a department head with respect to execution of contracts and matters of personnel management within the office.(Ord. 1982 c. 29 § 1)	15-8.2	Duties.	The Office of Public Information shall coordinate and manage the collection of dissemination of information to the public for the several departments subject to the supervision and control of the Mayor.(Ord. 1982 c. 29 § 1)
15-9	THE OFFICE OF THE ARTS AND HUMANITIES.	15-9.1	Established; Appointment of Executive Director.	There shall be and hereby is established within the Mayor's Office a division known as the Office of the Arts and Humanities, to be under the charge of an officer, known as the Executive Director, to be appointed by the Mayor for a term expiring the first Monday in January following the next biennial election at which a Mayor is elected.(Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)	15-9.2	Arts and Humanities Advisory Commission.	Within the office of the arts and humanities there shall be a Board known as the Arts and Humanities Advisory Commission, consisting of thirteen (13) individuals appointed by the Mayor from citywide, neighborhood or community cultural organizations and the community at large. Each member shall be appointed for terms of two (2) years, ending on the 30th of April; provided, however, that the Mayor shall designate seven (7) of the initial members for terms expiring April 30, 1987 and six (6) for terms expiring April 30, 1988. All members of the Arts and Humanities Commission shall be residents of Boston. The Mayor shall appoint one member to serve as Chair at his pleasure. No member of the Commission shall receive compensation other than reimbursement for reasonable expenses incurred in connection with service on the commission. Member of the commission shall be deemed “special municipal employees” in accordance with Chapter 268A of the General Laws.(Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)	15-9.3	Duties of Executive Director.	The Executive Director shall: administer City art programs; seek and apply for grants in the area of the arts and humanities from any source, public or private, do research, conduct educational programs and disseminate information to the public regarding the fine and performing arts; administer grants to benefit the arts and individual artists; coordinate with public and private agencies the development of the arts in the City of Boston; serve as liaison with all other local, State and Federal Departments and public or 
	1503
15-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	15-10
private agencies connected with the arts; coordinate with the Art Commission the promotion of new and the restoration of existing public art.(Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)	15-9.4	Duties of the Advisory Commission.	The Advisory Commission shall: survey and assess the needs of the arts, both visual and performing within the City of Boston; identify existing legislation, policies and programs which affect the arts and evaluate their effectiveness; encourage the use of local resources for the development and support of the arts; make application for gifts of grants from the United States, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, their agencies or officers including without limitation the National Endowment of the Arts, the Massachusetts Arts Lottery Council and the Massachusetts Council on the Arts and Humanities; and from any person, firm or corporation, of services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds, and may make grants in accordance with the law.(Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)	15-9.5	Quarterly Reports.	The Executive Director, in consultation with the Chair of the Commission, shall make quarterly reports to the Mayor and the City Council concerning receipts and expenditures of funds of the arts.(Ord. 1986 c. 4 § 1)15-10	CREATING THE POSITION OF MUNICIPAL AFFIRMATIVE ACTION OFFICER.	15-10.1	Declaration of Policy.	The City of Boston presently has a racially and ethnically diverse population. However, this population diversity is not proportionately reflected within all levels of the City's employment profile, nor in the profile of businesses securing contracts with the City. The City's administration should ensure that this diverse population is reflected in its employment profile and in its procurement system. The City should also utilize its power and influence to persuade the private business sector to reflect this minority population among its employees. Furthermore, women and minorities have established innumerable 
businesses which have not received a fair share of the millions of dollars that the City contracts out for goods, services, and construction. There must be a concerted effort to ensure women and minority businesses a greater share of City contracts. It is hereby declared that nondiscrimination and equal opportunity shall be the policy of the City of Boston in all of its decisions, programs and activities. To that end, each executive officer serving under the Mayor, and all City employees shall rigorously take affirmative steps to ensure equality of opportunity in the internal affairs of City government, as well as in their relations with the public, including those persons and organizations doing business with the City. Each agency, in discharging its statutory responsibilities, shall consider the likely effects which its decisions, programs and activities shall have in meeting the goal of equality of opportunity. Affirmative action requires more than vigilance in the elimination of discriminatory barriers to employment on the grounds of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation and handicap. It requires positive and aggressive measures to ensure equal opportunity in the areas of hiring, promotion, demotion or transfer, recruitment, layoff or termination, rate of compensation, in service or apprenticeship training programs, and all terms and conditions of employment. Affirmative Action shall include efforts required to remedy all unfair employment practices, and any action necessary to guarantee equal employment opportunity and access to City contracts for all people.(Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 1; Ord. 2002 c. 9)	15-10.2	Definitions.	As used hereinafter:	a.	The term “Agency” shall mean the unit of government, within the structure of the City of Boston that is responsible for the application, administration and execution of the policy defined in subsection 15-10.1.	b.	The term “City” shall mean the City of Boston.	c.	The term “MAAO” shall mean Municipal Affirmative Action Officer.
Rev. 2/14/03 Supp. 2	1504
15-10	DIVISIONS OF THE MAYOR'S OFFICE	15-10
	d.	The term “Minority” shall mean a person who is Black, Hispanic, Asian, Native American or Cape Verdean.	e.	The term “Minority Business” shall mean any sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation owned, operated, and controlled by minority group members who possess at least fifty-one (51%) percent ownership. The minority group member(s) must have operational and managerial control, interest in capital, and earnings commensurate with the percentage of minority ownership. The MAAO may seek assistance from the Massachusetts State Office of Minority Business Assistance to determine appropriate qualifications and qualified businesses.	f.	The term “WMBE”shall mean Women and Minority Business Enterprise.	g.	The term “Women's Business” shall mean a sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation owned, operated, and controlled by women who possess at least fifty-one (51%) percent ownership. The women must have operational and managerial control, interest in capital, and earnings commensurate with the percentage of women ownership.(Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 2)	15-10.3	Creation of Position of Municipal Affirmative Action Officer; Duties.	There is hereby established within the Mayor's office a position to be known as Municipal Affirmative Action Officer; said position to be filled by appointment by the Mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday of January following the next biennial election who shall have the powers and perform the duties imposed by law. The Mayor shall appoint the MAAO within sixty (60) days of passage of this section.	The Municipal Affirmative Action Officer shall be the chief Affirmative Action Officer for internal employment for the City and shall have oversight of the City's policy of nondiscrimination, equal opportunity, and affirmative action. (Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 3)Editor's Note:	This section was passed by the City Council on	  July 22, 1987.
	15-10.4	Duties of the Municipal Affirmative Action Officer.	The Municipal Affirmative Action Officer shall:	a.	Recommend appropriate standards and procedures governing the preparation, submission, and review of affirmative action plans by all Agencies.	b.	Give final approval or disapproval of all affirmative action plans prepared by such Agencies and appointing authorities as submitted by all City Agencies, Departments and Commissions.	c.	Conduct an ongoing review of affirmative action plans and their implementation to assure that they comply with such plans and the intent of this section.	d.	Establish a uniform grievance procedure which shall be available to any person subject to this section, including applicants, as well as employees, to determine any and all issues arising from this section and related to affirmative action plans.	e.	Report from time to time, but at least every three (3) months, to the Mayor and the City Council on the progress being made by the Agencies in administering their affirmative action plans. The MAAO shall submit an annual report to the Mayor and City Council with details and figures documenting, by Agency and Department, progress made towards realizing this section's goals. The report shall include an identification of problems and specific recommendations for increasing the City's performance.	f.	Ensure that the City's personnel system is operated in ways which provide assistance to appointing authorities in meeting the affirmative action goals.	g.	Require departmental Affirmative Action Officers to submit information on the status of their affirmative action plans on at least a quarterly basis, and whenever the MAAO deems necessary.(Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 3)
	1505
15-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	15-10
	15-10.5	Additional Duties for the MAAO; Requirements of the WMBE Procurement Plan.	The MAAO shall also monitor the implementation of the Boston Jobs Residency Program and develop a Women and Minority Business Enterprise Procurement Plan to increase the number of women and minority businesses securing contracts with the City. The City-wide annual goal for the Procurement Plan shall be not less than fifteen (15%) percent for minority business enterprises and not less than ten (10%) percent for women business enterprises.	Each Agency shall designate a senior staff person, who shall report directly to the MAAO and who shall be responsible for coordinating the development and implementation of the WMBE Procurement Plan within its respective Agency.	Each plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:	a.	By category (supplies and equipment, services and construction), a statement of the estimated total procurement dollars to be spent during the current fiscal year, the amount spent with WMBEs during the previous fiscal year, the amount projected to be spent with WMBEs during the current fiscal year, and the amount projected to be spent with WMBEs during the next fiscal year.	b.	A description of the methods, procedures and programs to be implemented in order to be in compliance with the provisions of this section. The program initiatives may include but shall not be limited to the following:		1.	Targeting some bid invitations to WMBEs.		2.	Promoting joint ventures between WMBEs and non-WMBEs.		3.	Requiring prime contractors to subcontract a minimum amount of work on projects to WMBEs.
		4.	Designating WMBEs as preferred vendors when submitting requests to the Purchasing agent.		5.	Dividing large contracts into smaller units to afford opportunities for WMBEs, where legally permissible.	c.	A plan for requiring each contractor who is granted a City contract; for supplies and equipment, services and construction, to submit to the contracting agency an affirmative action plan that includes the purchase of supplies, equipment and services from WMBEs as well as its compliance with the provisions of this section and the Boston Jobs Residency Ordinance.(Ord. 1987 c. 15 § 4)
	1506