	CHAPTER XVII	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES
17-1	LICENSING AND REGULATION OF ABORTIONS AND ABORTION CLINICS.	17-1.1	License Required; Fee; Conditions of License.	No person shall operate an abortion clinic, as hereinafter defined, nor, except in a general hospital, perform or offer an abortion as hereinafter defined, whether or not the same is done for a charge or profit, except under license of the Board of Health and Hospitals issued annually at a fee of one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars, which license shall be issued upon the condition that the holder thereof comply with such regulations as the Board shall from time to time make, amend and repeal, which regulations shall provide for:	a.	Minimum standards for the attendance of qualified professional persons at such abortion or abortion clinic;	b.	Equipment and procedures for use in the event of emergency;	c.	The administration of Rho-Gam or its medical equivalent to those patients requiring the same, as a part of the established fee for abortion;	d.	Pre-abortion counseling and post-abortion examination of patients without charge to the patient beyond the established fee for abortion;	e.	Periodic inspection of the premises by the Board; and	f.	Such other regulations as to the Board appear necessary for the health and safety of patients.(Ord. 1976 c. 14 § 1)  Penalty, see subsection 17-1.3

	17-1.2	Definitions.	As used in this section:	Abortion shall mean the intentional administration of any drug or substance, or of any surgical, mechanical, or manual process, or of any regimen, exercise, or procedure causing, or likely to cause, the destruction of the life of an unborn child or the expulsion or removal from the womb of an unborn child or fetus, other than for the principal purpose of producing a live birth or the removing of an already dead fetus.	Abortion clinic shall mean a place, other than a clinic operated by and within a general hospital, where abortions are offered or performed, whether or not the same is done for charge or profit, and whether or not such place would otherwise be described or termed a clinic.(Ord. 1976 c. 14 § 1)	17-1.3	Violations.	Every person violating this section, or assisting another in the violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of two hundred ($200.00) dollars, and for the purposes of this section, each abortion offered or performed, and each day any abortion clinic is in operation shall constitute a separate offense.(Ord. 1976 c. 14  § 1)	17-1.4	Time Allowed for Compliance.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 2-12.3, this ordinance shall be published by the action of the City Council in passing the same, and shall be in effect upon passage except that abortion clinics in operation on the effective date hereof shall not be required to obtain a license hereunder until the sixtieth day following passage.(Ord. 1976 c. 14 § 2)	1701
17-2	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-3
17-2	GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.	17-2.1	Requiring Compressed Air and Water at Service Stations.	Persons engaged in the business of selling gasoline or other fuel for motor vehicles at retail in the City of Boston shall, during the hours they are so engaged, have compressed air and water available for the use of motorists.(Ord. 1979 c. 31 § 1)  Penalty, see subsection 17-2.2	17-2.2	Violations.	Any person violating this section shall be punished by a fine not exceeding fifty ($50.00) dollars for each offense. Failure to have such air and water available during the hours of any one day when such person is selling such gasoline or other fuel at retail shall be one offense.(Ord. 1979 c. 31 § 2)	17-2.3	Gasoline Prices.	No person engaged in the sale of gasoline by pump shall display or suffer the display of the price thereof by sign or other marking located at or near the premises upon which such person is so engaged unless such sign or other marking or a similar sign or other similar marking is attached to the pump or pumps to which said price applies, or, unless such sign or other marking clearly indicates the pump or pumps to which said price applies.(CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 351; Renumbered by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 41)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.117-3	HAYMARKET-BLACKSTONE MARKET.	17-3.1	Market Area Designated.	There shall be designated in downtown Boston an area known as the Haymarket-Blackstone Market which shall consist of Blackstone Street from North to Hanover; North Street from Blackstone to Union; Hanover Street from Blackstone to Union but not including Union Street or any other street within that area but shall include only these streets for market purposes.(Ord. 1978 c. 6 § 1)
	17-3.2	Hours That Sales Are Permitted.	Vendors shall be licensed by the City of Boston Health and Hospitals Department and shall be allowed on the above streets from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, Fridays and Saturdays.(Ord. 1978 c. 6 § 2)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-3.3	Authority of Health Division.	The City of Boston Health and Hospitals Department, Health Division, shall determine who are proper persons to be licensed and what portion of said Haymarket-Blackstone area they shall be assigned to.(Ord. 1979 c. 6 § 3)	17-3.4	Licenses Issued by the Commissioner of Public Works.	Subject to Section 5 of the rules and regulations of the Department of Public Works, effective as of January 1, 1955, the Commissioner of Public Works may issue sidewalk or street licenses for the market area delineated in the above section on any other day but not excluding Friday and Saturday except that on Friday and Saturday sidewalk and street licenses may be issued to that portion of the street not already assigned to a licensed pushcart vendor.(Ord. 1978 c. 6 § 4)	17-3.5	Additional Charges for Services Rendered by City.	a.	Charges Imposed. Each licensee holding a license under any provision of law to use or occupy a street or sidewalk in the historic Haymarket-Blackstone Market, as defined in City of Boston Ordinances, Title XVII, subsection 17-3.1, shall pay to the City in each fiscal year a charge, in addition to any licensing fee imposed, for services rendered or work performed by the City for that class of persons who are such licensees to clean up and dispose of commercial refuse and garbage in said Market. Said charge shall be imposed for each such license held and shall be fixed by the Commissioner of Public Works, under the authority of St. 1949, c. 222, as the Commissioner in his discretion may determine; provided, however, that said charge shall not be greater than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars for each such license held in any fiscal year; and provided further, that said Commissioner shall fix the charge to 
	1702
17-4	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-4
be paid for each such license held based upon the actual costs incurred by the City for such clean up and disposal in the preceding fiscal year and upon the number of licenses held by the licensees in said class.	b.	Time for Payment. Said charge shall be paid to the City by each licensee in said class no later than thirty (30) days after the day on which said Commissioner has sent notice to said licensees of the charge fixed by him.	c.	Failure to Pay. If a licensee fails to pay a charge authorized by this subsection within the time specified in paragraph b. hereof, the licensing authority is hereby authorized to revoke or suspend any license granted and, in its discretion, may refuse to issue any subsequent license until any charge authorized herein has been paid.(Ord. 1992 c. 8 §§ 1-3)17-4	JUNK DEALERS, WEIGHERS AND MEASURERS.	17-4.1	Licenses.	The Police Commissioner of the City of Boston may license suitable persons to be collectors of, or dealers in and keepers of shops for the purchase, sale, or barter of, junk, old metals, or second-hand articles.(Ord. May 6,1839; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 1; G.L. c. 140 § 54; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 400) Cross-references:	Section 11-1; ss 16-24.1.	17-4.2	Record of Purchases to be Kept; Inspection.	Every shop-keeper shall keep a book, in which shall be written, at the time of every purchase of any such article, a description thereof, and the name, age, and residence of the person from whom, and the day and hour when, such purchase was made; and the shop of such shopkeeper, and all articles of merchandise therein, and such book shall at all times be open to the inspection of the Mayor, the City Council, the Police Commissioner, or of any person by them respectively authorized to make such inspection.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 2; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 401)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1
	17-4.3	Signs.	Every such shop-keeper shall put in some suitable and conspicuous place on his shop a sign having his name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon in large letters.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 3; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 402)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-4.4	Sales Restricted.	No such shop-keeper holding a license from the Police Commissioner as a dealer in second-hand articles shall permit to be sold any article purchased or received by him until at least thirty (30) days after its purchase or receipt. Nor shall any dealer in, or keeper of a shop for the purchase, sale, or barter of, junk or old metals, permit to be sold any article purchased or received by him until at least one week after its purchase or receipt.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 4; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 403)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1Cross-reference:	ss 16-24.1.	17-4.5	Restriction on Display of Articles.	No such shop-keeper holding a license from the Police Commissioner as a dealer in any second-hand articles shall permit to be displayed any second-hand furniture or household effects in any open area surrounding or appurtenant to the premises occupied by said license.(Ords. 1931 c. 5; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 5; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 404)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-4.6	Weighers of Vessels and Ballast, Books and Accounts.	The Weighers of Vessels and Ballast shall keep regular books showing the work done, the reports thereon, the fees earned, and the dates of all certificates.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 6; G.L. c. 102 § 6; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 405)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 11 § 30.
	1703
17-4	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-4
	17-4.7	Office of Weighers.	The Office of Weighers shall be open from sunrise to sunset on every day except Sundays and legal holidays, but may be closed during the months of April, May, June, July, August and September, from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m., and during the other months from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m., and through the whole year from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. (Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 7; G.L. c. 102 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 406)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 11 § 30.	17-4.8	Masters of Vessels to Report to Weigher; Inspection of Vessels.	The master of every vessel that has stone, sand, gravel, or ballast for sale by weight, to be delivered within the City, shall, on arrival, report in person at the Office of the Weighers, and shall produce for examination a certificate of the marks and measurements of his vessel whenever a weigher so demands. One of the weighers shall go on board every such vessel, and inspect its marks both before and after the delivery of such material, and inspect and weigh such material; and the person having charge of the vessel shall before such delivery, if so required by the weigher, pump out all the water in the vessel, and trim it so as to make it swim at equal marks at stem and stern, and shall not deliver any such material until inspected; but this subsection shall not apply to sand sold for building purposes unless the purchasers request an inspection. Whoever violates any provision of this subsection shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each offense.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 8; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 407) Cross-reference:	Statutes, Title 11 § 30.	17-4.9	Reports and Certificates.	When a weigher has inspected and weighed any stone, sand, gravel, or ballast in any vessel, he shall forthwith file a report in the office of the weigher, showing the name of the vessel, the vendor, the kind of material, the weight, and deduction of light-water marks, and the amount of fees received, and shall give a certificate, containing the same matters, to the 
vendor or owner, but such certificate shall not be given for any material sold out below light-water marks.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 408)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-4.10	Vessel Not Subject to Second Weighing.	No vessel which has once been weighed and marked according to law by weigher of the City of Boston shall be subject to charge for a second weighing or marking, unless it appears that her former weight or marks are incorrect or have been changed; but every vessel which has been so weighed and marked shall be subject to the examination and inspection of every weigher, without charge, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the weights are correct or have been altered.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 409)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1Cross-references:	St. T.9 § 10; St. T.11 § 30.	17-4.11	Fees for Measurers of Wood and Bark.	The fees for measurers of wood and bark shall be ten ($.10) cents for each cord measured, to be paid to the measurer by the owner or vendor.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 11; G.L. c. 94 § 300; CBC 1975 T14 § 410)	17-4.12	Fees for Measuring Grain.	The fees for measuring wheat, corn or other grain shall be three-quarters of a cent ($.0075) for each bushel, to be paid to the measurer by the owner or vendor.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 12; G.L. c. 94 § 221; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 411)	17-4.13	Fee for Inspecting Ballast.	The fee for inspecting the weight of stone, sand, gravel, or ballast of any kind shall be five ($.05) cents for every ton, which fee in all cases shall be paid by the vendor and repaid by the vendee.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 13; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 412)
	1704
17-4	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-7
	17-4.14	All Other Fees.	All fees not herein specifically enumerated shall be as provided by law. (Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 14; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 413)17-5	MINORS' LICENSES.	17-5.1	Requirements for Licenses.	No minor between the ages of sixteen (16) and twenty-one (21) years shall, in any street or public place of the City, work as a bootblack, or sell or expose for sale any newspapers, magazines and periodicals, ice, song sheets, religious publications, flowering plant and such flowers, fruit and berries as are wild and cultivated unless he has a license therefor granted by the Mayor and City Council.(Reg. January 25, 1892; St. 1934 c. 114; St. 1937 c. 73; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 15; G.L. c. 101 § 19; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 414)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-5.2	Issue of License.	The City Clerk shall receive applications of parents or guardians of minors, or of responsible citizens of Boston, for licenses for minors, and shall, when such a license is granted, issue the license and a badge to such minor. Every such license shall be issued and accepted on condition that the minor shall comply with the terms of the following subsection, which shall be printed in the license.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 16; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 415) Cross-reference:	ss 2-10.3.	17-5.3	Conditions.	The minor shall conform to the statutes and ordinances; shall surrender his license and badge to the City Clerk when notified that his license has been revoked; shall not transfer or lend his license or badge, or furnish any unlicensed minor with newspapers or other articles to sell; shall not sell newspapers in or on any part of a street other than the sidewalk, or in or on a street car without the permission of the company operating such car; shall not at any time, while engaged in working as a bootblack or selling articles in public places, 
congregate with other persons, or make unnecessary noise, or in any way disturb or annoy persons as they pass, or obstruct free passage on any sidewalk, crosswalk or entrance to any public place, or occupy any stand with any other person, or allow any unlicensed minor to assist or accompany him, or allow idle persons to assemble or congregate around him or around any stand occupied by him, or so work or sell in any other place than that specified in his license when a place is so specified, or at any time while so working or selling fail to wear conspicuously in sight the badge furnished to him by the City Clerk, or fail to exhibit his license to any police or other officer of the City if requested by him so to do. Any minor who violates any of these provisions shall be deprived of his license and badge, and be subject to a fine.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 17; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 416)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1Cross-reference:	Ord. ss. 2-10.3.17-6	MISREPRESENTATION IN CONNECTION WITH JOB INCENTIVE PROGRAMS.	17-6.1	Penalty for Violation.	Any person who willfully falsifies or misrepresents his age, sex, race, or residence in order to take advantage of a hiring program made a part of any governmental construction contract shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred ($200.00) dollars per day for each day of employment acquired as a result of such misrepresentation or falsification.(Ord. 1979 c. 32)17-7	REAL ESTATE; REGULATION OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES.	17-7.1	Regulation of Real Estate Activities.	Any person who solicits the sale, lease, sub-lease, or the listing for sale, lease, or sub-lease, of residential property on the ground of a current or prospective change in the ethnic, racial, social or religious character of a neighborhood or on the grounds of the expansion of the Logan International Airport in the East Boston section of Boston, and any 
	1705
17-8	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-8
person who induces or attempts to induce such a sale, lease, sub-lease or listing by a statement, written or oral, concerning any such neighborhood change, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding fifty ($50.00) dollars on account of each solicitation or listing made, or inducement offered, to any person or business entity who is the owner or lessee of residential property, or who seeks to own or lease such property.	Every real estate broker soliciting the sale, lease, or the listing for sale or lease, of three (3) or more residential properties fronting on either side of any street between intersecting or cross streets or between a cul-de-sac or other like termination point and an intersecting or cross street within any ninety (90) day period, whether directly or through his salesman, shall maintain a permanent record, for at least one year from the date of said solicitation, which shall be available for inspection by the Corporation Counsel or any representative thereof upon request, setting forth the name and address of each person so solicited, the address of the property involved, the name of the licensee actually making such solicitation, and the date upon which the solicitation took place. At the request of the Corporation Counsel or any representative thereof, any such broker shall file with the Corporation Counsel a copy of the permanent record, or a statement containing the same information as set forth in the permanent record. Such filing shall be made with the City Clerk no later than ten (10) days following the request therefor.	For the purposes hereof, “soliciting” includes solicitation by telephone, mail, personal visitation, materials distributed by hand, or other media. (Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 18A; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 417) Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 5-8.1.17-8	REGISTRATION OF KEEPERS OF SHOPS FOR BARTER, RENTAL OR SALE OF PRINTED MATTER OR MOTION PICTURE FILMS RESTRICTED TO ADULTS.	17-8.1	Registration of Certain Shops.	On and after September first, 1969, no person shall in any year keep a shop for the barter, rental or 
sale of printed matter or motion picture film if such shop is not open to the public generally but only to one or more classes of the public excluding minors under eighteen (18) years of age unless in such year or in the preceding December for such year such person has registered with the City Clerk as provided in Subsection 17-8.2 and the number assigned to him upon such registration is clearly and conspicuously imprinted on all printed matter and motion picture films in such shop; nor shall any person keeping a shop for the barter, rental or sale of printed matter or motion picture film in any year keep a part of his stock segregated as available only to one or more classes of the public excluding minors under eighteen (18) years of age unless in such year or in the preceding December for such year such person has registered with the City Clerk as provided in Subsection 17-8.2 and the number assigned to him upon such registration is clearly and conspicuously imprinted on all printed matter and motion picture films constituting a part of the stock so segregated; nor shall any person in any year at any place in the City, barter, rent or sell, or offer for barter, rental or sale, any printed matter or motion picture film bearing a legend restricting it to adults only or to one or more classes of the public excluding minors under eighteen (18) years of age unless in such year or in the preceding December for such year such person has registered with the City Clerk as provided in Subsection 17-5.2 and the number assigned to him upon such registration is clearly and conspicuously imprinted on such printed matter or motion picture film.(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 23A; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 423)  Penalty, see subsection 17-8.3Editor's Note:	This section and the following two were held	  unconstitutional in Broadway Distributors,	  Inc. v. White, 307 F. Supp. 1180 (D. Mass.	  1970).	17-8.2	Filing for Application.	Any person desiring that a registration number be assigned to him for the purpose of Subsection 17-8.1 shall make application therefor to the City Clerk in a writing setting forth: (1) his name and place of residence, (2) the address of such shop or place, (3) the names and places of residence of all persons having a financial interest in the business, and (4) the names and business addresses of all persons supplying the printed matter or motion picture film to be offered for barter, rental or sale. Any person making
	1706
17-8	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-9
application as aforesaid shall from time to time during the year as circumstances change file supplementary writings with the City Clerk setting forth such changes. Unless subsequent to the effective date of Subsection 17-8.1 the applicant has violated Section 28 or Section 28A of Chapter 272 of the General Laws and been finally adjudged guilty of such violation, the City Clerk shall assign to the applicant a registration number. (Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 23B; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 424)  Penalty, see subsection 17-8.3Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 272 § § 28, 28A; 	See note above.	17-8.3	Penalty for Violation.	Whoever violates any provision of Subsection 17-8.1 or whoever makes a false or fraudulent representation in making an application under Subsection 17-8.2, or whoever neglects or fails to file supplementary writings as required by Subsection 17-8.2 shall be subject to a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars for each day on which such violation occurs or during which such violation continues.(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 23C; CBC 1975 Ord. T14, § 425) See note above.17-9	RECOMBINANT DNA TECHNOLOGY; USE REGULATIONS.	17-9.1	Guidelines for the Regulation of Recombinant DNA Use. 	a.	Definitions.		1.	“Recombinant DNA molecules” (RDNA) and “organisms and viruses containing RDNA” are those defined in the National Institutes of Health Guidelines promulgated in the Federal Register on November 21, 1980, and such amendments thereto as may be approved by the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals (Commissioner). Amendments not acted upon by the Commissioner within sixty (60) days shall be considered approved.	2.	An “institution” shall mean any single individual, group of individuals or organization.
	3.	“Guidelines” are defined as:		(a)	National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA molecules as published in the Federal Register of November 21, 1980.		(b)	National Institute of Health Physical Containment Recommendations for large-scale use of organisms containing Recombinant DNA molecules as published in the Federal Register on April 11, 1980.		(c)	Administrative Practices Supplement to NIH Guidelines for Research involving Recombinant DNA molecules as issued by the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, November, 1980.		(d)	Such amendments to (a), (b) and (c) above which are adopted by NIH and approved by the Commissioner. Amendments not acted upon by the Commissioner within sixty (60) days shall be considered approved.	b.	Purpose. All use of RDNA by institutions in the City of Boston shall be undertaken only in strict conformity with the “Guidelines,” as defined above, and in conformity with such other health regulations as the Board of Health and Hospitals (Board) may from time to time promulgate or administrative practices which the Commissioner may from time to time require.	c.	Boston Biohazards Committee.		1.	A Boston Biohazards Committee (BBC) shall be established within thirty (30) days of the time of passage of this ordinance for the purpose of overseeing all use of RDNA within the City of Boston and of advising the Commissioner and the Board, all in accordance with the powers and the duties assumed pursuant to Subsection 17-9.3.		2.	The BBC shall be composed of seven (7) members, one of whom shall be the Commissioner or his designee who shall serve as chairman; two (2) of whom shall be residents of neighborhoods which are or may be impacted by RDNA research or technology; one of whom shall be a scientist knowledgeable in the field of RDNA research or technology; and three (3) of whom shall assure representation from the fields of public health, 
	1707
17-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-9
occupational health and infectious diseases. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council, except for the two (2) community representatives. Each neighborhood impacted by RDNA research or production may nominate a delegate to attend and participate in meetings of the BBC. The Commissioner shall arrange with an established community group in each such neighborhood to conduct an election, at no cost to the City, to nominate such delegates. Neighborhood delegates will arrange among themselves at the first meeting of the BBC in each year which delegates shall hold the voting memberships provided in this section. The members as appointed by the Mayor shall serve for terms of three (3) years, except that one member initially appointed to represent a neighborhood which is or may be impacted by RDNA research or technology and one member initially appointed to assure representation from the fields of public health, occupational health or infectious disease shall be initially appointed for terms of two (2) years; and the other two (2) members initially appointed to assure representation from the fields of public health, occupational health or infectious disease shall be initially appointed for terms of one year. Persons appointed by the Mayor to fill vacancies shall serve for the unexpired term of said vacancy. Appointments not acted upon by the City Council shall automatically take effect after twenty-one (21) days.		3.	Upon the request of the BBC, the Commissioner shall make available competent professional assistance to assist the BBC in carrying out its duties under this ordinance.	d.	Permit Requirements.		1.	All institutions proposing to use RDNA must obtain a permit from the Board which must be renewed annually. Permit requirements shall, at minimum, include written agreement to:			(a)	Following the “Guidelines” as defined in Subsection 17-9.1.			(b)	Follow other conditions as set forth in this ordinance.			(c)	Allow inspections, at reasonable times, of facilities and pertinent records.
			(d)	Prepare a Health and Safety Manual which contains all procedures relevant to the use of RDNA at all levels of containments at use at the institution.			(e)	Establish a training program of safeguards and procedures for personnel using RDNA.			(f)	Submit, to the BBC, for approval by the Commissioner, a plan for the systematic monitoring of research and production waste to assure that surviving RDNA organisms are not released into the environment. Said plan shall include provisions that no surviving RDNA organisms are released into the City's sewerage system.		2.	Applications for permits must be acted upon within sixty (60) days, unless such applications involve physical containment defined by the “Guidelines” as “P2" or “P3" or are defined by the “Guidelines” as “large scale” activities, in which case applications must be acted upon within ninety (90) days. Failure to act within such time period shall constitute an approval.		3.	Any institution which has not commenced RDNA activity as of the effective date of this ordinance may not proceed until a permit is issued. All other institutions must apply for such permits within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this ordinance.	e.	The Institutional Biosafety Committees (IBCs), shall be established in accordance with the “Guidelines,” except that the required composition of the committees shall include at least one representative of the local community approved by the Commissioner and at least one non-doctoral person from the laboratory technical staff.	f.	The Commissioner may require the forwarding of minutes of IBC meetings and may also require the filing of regular reports, all in a manner to be determined by him. To the extent IBC minutes may contain trade secrets or proprietary information the Commissioner and the Institution shall develop procedures for assuring confidentiality.	g.	Institutions using RDNA shall perform adequate screening to insure the purity of the strain of host organisms used in the experiments and shall test 
	1708
17-9	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-9
organisms resulting from such experiments for their resistance to commonly used therapeutic antibiotics.	h.	All institutions using RDNA shall provide an appropriate medical surveillance program as determined by their IBC for all persons engaged in the use of RDNA.  Such programs must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner and shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to:		1.	A medical examination for employees prior to their employment in a laboratory or area engaged in RDNA research or technology.		2.	Prompt reporting of significant or potentially related employee illnesses to their IBC.		3.	Retention of medical and health records for a period of time to be determined by the Commissioner.	The Commissioner, with the advice and recommendations of the BBC, may set minimum standards for medical examinations, employee illness reporting, and medical and health records, and may likewise require, for specified levels of physical containment or large-scale use, the taking of serum samples at the time of employment and their maintenance to permit future testing. The Commissioner and the institution shall develop procedures to assure that the confidentiality of employee health and medical records are protected.	i.	The institution shall report within thirty (30) days to the Commissioner and the BBC any significant problems with or violations of the “Guidelines” and any significant RDNA related accidents or illnesses.	j.	All areas in which RDNA is utilized shall be free of rodent and insect infestation.(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 1)  Penalty, see subsection 17-9.6	17-9.2	Large Scale.	All institutions using RDNA on a “Large Scale” (as defined in the “Guidelines”) must adhere to the following requirements in addition to those stated in Subsection 17-9.1.	a.	Special Permit. All institutions intending to engage in large-scale procedures must obtain a special, 
large-scale permit from the Board, which must be renewed annually, prior to commencing such procedures. Said permit shall be separate and distinct, but otherwise in addition to the permit required by Subsection 17-9.1.	Such Large-Scale Permit shall require, at minimum, written agreement to:		1.	Identify clearly all large-scale RDNA use in their IBC minutes.		2.	Develop procedures through their IBC for monitoring large-scale operations for compliance with this ordinance and the “Guidelines,” to be approved by the Commissioner.		3.	Establish a Health-Safety Program for appropriate employees which shall include periodic health surveillance which must be approved by the Commissioner.	b.	The Commissioner shall cause any facility using Large-Scale RDNA to be inspected no less than annually.	c.	Prior to issuing any Large-Scale Permit the Board shall conduct an appropriate public hearing.(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 2)  Penalty, see subsection 17-9.6	17-9.3	Boston Biohazards Committee (BBC).	Recognizing the need for community and scientific input to assist the Board and the Commissioner in carrying out their duties and responsibilities in regulating Recombinant DNA research, production and technology, the BBC, as established by Subsection 17-9.1c., shall have the following duties and responsibilities.	a.	The BBC shall continually review literature in the area of Recombinant DNA research, production and technology and shall continually review the effectiveness of the regulatory system established by this ordinance and, in light of such review, shall advise and make recommendations to the Commissioner and the Board as to the manner in which the system may be improved. Included within such responsibilities, the BBC shall review and make 
	1709
17-9	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-9
recommendations to the Commissioner on all amendments to the “Guidelines.”	b.	The BBC shall review and make recommendations to the Board on all applications for permits and permit renewals.	c.	The BBC shall review, comment and make recommendations to the Commissioner on individual institution's policies, procedures, manuals and programs adopted by such institution for the purpose of conforming with the requirements of this ordinance and its permit.	d.	The BBC shall designate one of its members, other than the Commissioner, to participate in site inspections carried out under this ordinance.	e.	The BBC shall designate one or more of its members to participate in public hearings held by the Board in the area of Recombinant DNA regulation or permitting.	f.	The BBC shall review and make recommendations to the Commissioner and the Board in regard to appropriate administrative action to be taken for violations of this ordinance.	g.	The BBC shall make an annual report to the Board, the nature and content of which shall be determined by the BBC, as to the status of RDNA research, technology and production activities within the City and the effectiveness of the regulatory system as established by this ordinance.	h.	The BBC shall meet at least six (6) times per year but otherwise with sufficient frequency to assure prompt and effective response to its duties and responsibilities.(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 3)	17-9.4	Restrictions.	a.	RDNA use requiring containment defined by the “Guidelines” as “P4" shall not be permitted in the City of Boston.	b.	There shall be no deliberate release into the environment of any surviving organism containing recombinant DNA and any accidental release shall be 
reported to the Commissioner immediately and in no case longer than twenty-four (24) hours.(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 4)  Penalty, see subsection 17-9.6	17-9.5	Fees and Expenses.	The Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to design, implement and enforce a fee system which shall assure that activities carried out by the City and the BBC in conformance with this ordinance are fully reimbursed by the regulated institutions. Payment of such fee or fees shall be a further condition of the granting or renewing of any permit.(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 5)	17-9.6	Penalties.	a.	Violation of the conditions of this section shall subject the violator to a fine of two hundred ($200.00) dollars per day. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.	b.	Once a permit has been issued it may be revoked, suspended or modified by the Commissioner, or not renewed by the Board, only upon a determination, after due notice and hearing, that the institution involved has materially failed to comply with this ordinance, the permit agreements, or the “Guidelines.” Notice and hearing procedures shall be those established by the Environmental Health Inspection Services Division of the Department of Health and Hospitals.	c.	Notwithstanding the above, the Commissioner, upon a determination that any violation constitutes an immediate and severe threat to the public health and safety, may order the immediate closure of any premises or laboratory engaging in or contributing to such threat, without prior notice and hearing but otherwise with subsequent notice and hearing.(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 6)	17-9.7	Severability of Sections.	If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this section is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, 
	1710
17-9	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-10
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.(Ord. 1981 c. 12 § 7)	17-9.8	Term.	This section shall be in full force and effect until July 1, 1991 unless sooner amended, repealed or extended. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to limit the term or effectiveness of any regulations promulgated by the Board of Health and Hospitals during or subsequent to such period. (Ord. 1981 c.12 § 8; Ord. 1986 c. 9, §§ 1, 2)Editor's Note:	Section 2 of Ord. 1986 c. 9 states “The	  remaining parts and portions of said Chapter	  12 of the Ordinances of 1981 are hereby	  continued and confirmed to the end that the	  said ordinance shall be deemed to not have	  lapsed and to be and remain continuously in	  force and effect until July 1, 1991 unless	  sooner amended, repealed, or extended.”	Ord. 1991 c. 3 provides that Chapter 12 of	  Ordinance 1981 shall be in full force and	  effect until January 1, 1993.17-10	PERMITTING AND REGULATION	OF MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS.	17-10.1	Definitions.	When used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meanings:	Commissioner  shall mean the Commissioner of Public Works of the City of Boston or his or her designee.	The Committee shall mean the Commissioner, the Director of Food Initiatives, and the Departments, as defined.	Departments shall mean the Transportation Department, the Inspectional Services Department, the Police Department, the Fire Department, and the Assessing Department, all of the City of Boston.
	Food establishment shall mean a business operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends or otherwise provides food for human consumption as set forth in the State Sanitary Code 105 CMR 590.002.	Mobile food commissary shall mean a licensed food establishment that a mobile food truck reports to twice daily for all food and supplies and for all cleaning and sanitizing of units and equipment.	Mobile food truck shall mean a mobile food vehicle.	Mobile food vehicle shall mean a food establishment that is located upon a vehicle, or which is pulled by a vehicle, where food or beverage is cooked, prepared and served for individual portion service, such as a mobile food kitchen; provided however that a mobile food vehicle shall not be considered a food service establishment for the purposes of CBC 18-1.6(39).(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.2	Scope.	a.	The provisions of this section shall apply to mobile food operations engaged in the business of cooking, preparing, and distributing food or beverage with or without charge from mobile food trucks on or in public, private or restricted spaces. This section shall not apply to canteen, coffee, or ice cream trucks that move from place to place and are stationary in the same location for no more than thirty (30) minutes at a time or food vending push carts and stands.	b.	The provisions of this section shall not apply to mobile food operations that receives a temporary event permit issued by the Public Works Department.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.3	Mobile Food Trucks Committee.	a.	There shall be within the City of Boston a Mobile Food Trucks Committee consisting of the Public Works Department, the Transportation Department, the Inspectional Services Department, the Police Department, the Fire Department, the Director of Food Initiatives and the Assessing Department for the purpose of reviewing applications for mobile food truck permits and establishing rules and regulations as appropriate.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1711
17-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-10
	b.	The Committee may work with an industry-led task force in developing acceptable routes of operation throughout the city and establishing industry standards, such as the use of global positioning system (GPS) devices and other matters.	c.	The Committee may work with applicants for mobile food truck permits and renewals to encourage the following:		i.	Sustainable and environmentally friendly practices, including the use of energy-efficient vehicles,		ii.	Charitable components to the business of operation,		iii.	School nutrition programs or healthy food choices, 		iv.	 Programs for children or the homeless,		v.	Other socially responsible practices and programs,		vi.	Routes that provide access to underserved neighborhoods of the city, and		vii	 The use of food commissaries within the City.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.4	Mobile Food Truck			Permit Required.	a.	No person or business entity, including a religious or charitable organization, shall operate a mobile food truck in any public, private or restricted space without a permit issued by the Committee.	b.	A mobile food truck permit is required for each and every mobile food truck. (Ord. 2011 c.5)	17-10.5	Application for a Mobile Food			Truck Permit.	a.	Single Application. There shall be made available by the Commissioner a single application form to apply for each mobile food truck permit. The application shall provide the following:
		1.	A description of necessary inspections and fees;		2.	A description of areas of the City where the operation of mobile food trucks are limited or prohibited;	b.	Submission of Materials. Each application shall indicate on its face, in addition to other requirements as may be determined by the Committee, that the following materials must be submitted by the applicant:		1.	The name of the business and its owner or owners and the mailing address of the business,		2. 	A description of the proposed business plan for the mobile food truck operation,		3.	A proposed service route and hours of operation with a detailed schedule of times and locations where the mobile food truck will be stationary and serving food,		4.	Certification that the vehicle has passed all necessary inspections required by the Boston Fire Department and Department of Inspectional Services,		5.	Proof that the mobile food truck will be serviced by a mobile food commissary,		6.	Proof of access to restroom facilities with flushable toilets and access to hand washing facilities for the use of the mobile food truck employees within five hundred (500) feet of each location where the mobile food truck will be in operation for more than one (1) hour in any single day, and		7.	A certificate of insurance providing general liability insurance listing the City as additionally insured. A food truck permit shall be issued only for the explicit time period covered by the effective dates of the general liability insurance policy.	c.	Approval Process. An application must be submitted to the Commissioner of Public Works, who shall then forward the application to the Departments for review. The application must receive the approval of each of the Departments, based on duly published
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1712
17-10	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-10
criteria established by the Committee, prior to its final approval and the issuance of a permit by the Commissioner.		1.	The Committee may work with the applicant or permit holder to modify a service route at any time (i) before the issue of a permit or (ii) after the issue of a permit, if the grant of a permit or approval of a service route has led to the creation of a nuisance or otherwise endanger the public health, safety, or order or by request of the permit holder.		2.	Within sixty (60) days of the submission of a completed application, the Commissioner shall either issue or deny the application for a permit.		3.	If the application is denied in whole or in part, the Commissioner shall state the specific reasons for the denial. Any applicant who has been denied a permit may appeal such denial by submitting a written request for a hearing to the Commissioner within ten (10) days of denial. Such hearing shall be conducted by the Commissioner or his or her designee within thirty (30) days of receipt of said appeal. The decision resulting therefrom shall be final and subject only to judicial review under M.G.L. c. 30A, § 14.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.6	Limitation on the Number			of Permits.	The Committee may from time to time set a limit on the number of total permits that may be issued or renewed per year; provided, however, that no more than ten percent (10%) of total permits or five (5) permits, whichever is greater, may be issued to a single person or business entity or both. Upon receipt of application, the Commissioner or his or her designee shall advise the applicant whether or not the limitation has been met.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.7	Permit Renewal.	a.	Every mobile food truck permit, unless suspended or revoked by the Committee for a violation of any provision of this section or other rule or regulation promulgated for the implementation of this section, shall be renewed annually given that a renewal fee is paid within thirty (30) days after its one
(1) year expiration, at which time the permit holder shall forfeit the right to renew and the permit may be made available to another applicant for new permit if the limitation on the number of permits has not been reached.	b.	The renewal of a permit does not also guarantee renewal of the previously approved route. The Committee reserves the right to add, remove, and reapportion available locations among mobile food truck operations at renewal.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.8	Rules and Regulations.	a.	General. The Committee members are hereby authorized to promulgate, both jointly and within their respective departments, additional rules and regulations appropriate for the implementation of this section, and, if necessary, work with other agencies and departments of the City and State to establish a streamlined process for the permitting of mobile food trucks; provided, however, that such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the following limitations and restrictions:		1.	No operator of a mobile food truck shall park, stand, or move a vehicle and conduct business within areas of the City where the permit holder has not been authorized to operate;		2.	No permit holder shall possess a permit for a mobile food truck that is not in operation for a period of more than fourteen (14) days without duly notifying and obtaining approval from the Commissioner.		3.	The issuance of a permit does not grant or entitle the exclusive use of the service route, in whole or in part, to the mobile food truck permit holder, other than the time and place as approved for the term of the permit;		4.	No mobile food truck shall provide or allow any dining area, including but not limited to tables, chairs, booths, bar stools, benches, and standup counters, unless a proposal for such seating arrangements is submitted with the permit application and approved by Committee.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1712.1
17-10	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-10
		5.	Consumers shall be provided with single service articles, such as plastic forks and paper plates, and a waste container for their disposal. All mobile food trucks shall offer a waste container for public use that the operator shall empty at his own expense.		6.	The permit holder must keep an accurate log indicating that the mobile food truck is serviced at least twice daily by a mobile food commissary for all food, water and supplies and for all cleaning and servicing operations, including the emptying and cleaning of waste containers.		7.	No mobile food truck shall make or cause to be made any unreasonable or excessive noise in violation of CBC 16-26.1.		8.	A mobile food truck may not operate on public property unless the Commissioner and the Departments have otherwise granted approval on the permit application for its operation at the particular location during specific times.		9.	All mobile food trucks must be equipped with a permanently mounted global positioning system (GPS) device that meets rules and regulations established by the Committee or its members.		10.	For mobile food trucks on public property, the City reserves the right to temporarily move a mobile food truck to a nearby location if the approved location needs to be used for emergency purposes, snow removal, construction, or other public benefit.	b.	Inspectional Services. The Inspectional Services Department shall ensure compliance with the State Sanitary Code 105 CMR 590.	c.	Fire Department. The Boston Fire Department shall promulgate rules and regulations for the inspection of mobile food trucks and to ensure compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local fire safety statutes, regulations, ordinances, and codes.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)
	17-10.9	Permit Fees.	a.	Application Fee. The application fee for a permit or a renewal of a permit granted by the Committee for the operation of a mobile food truck shall be five hundred ($500.00) dollars.	b.	Annual Fee. An annual fee shall be required for the issuance or renewal of a mobile food truck permit based on a taxable market valuation of City property by the Assessing Department, including sidewalks, from which mobile food trucks will stand according to a route of operation submitted with an application for a mobile food truck permit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Committee from designating zones throughout the City for the purposes of establishing fees and rates.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.10  Prohibition Against the Transfer			  of a Permit.	a.	Transfers for Value Prohibited. No person holding a permit for a mobile food truck shall sell, lend, lease or in any manner transfer a mobile food truck permit for value.	b.	Nonvalue Transfers as Part of the Sale of a Business. Notwithstanding subsection 17-10.10(a), a permit holder may transfer a permit as part of the sale of a majority of the stock in a corporation holding such permit, as part of the sale of a majority of the membership interests of a limited liability company holding such permit, or as part of the sale of a business or substantially all of its assets; provided that there shall be no allocated or actual value for the transfer of the permit.		1.	Prior to any such transfer, the transferor shall notify the Committee in writing and the transferee shall submit a food truck permit application for approval to the Committee pursuant to the process set forth in subsection 17-10.5 and any additional rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee.		2.	Any such transfer shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the original permit.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1712.2
17-10	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-11
	c.	Unauthorized Transfer Voids Permit. Any unauthorized transfer or attempt to transfer a permit shall automatically void such permit. Whoever violates this provision, including both the transferor and transferee, shall be subject to a fine of three hundred ($300.00) dollars, pursuant to section 17-10.12(a). The unauthorized transfer or attempt to transfer of each permit shall constitute a separate violation.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.11  Operation of Mobile Food Trucks.	a.	Operation Without Permit. Any mobile food truck being operated without a valid mobile food truck permit issued by the Commissioner shall be deemed a public safety hazard and may be ticketed and impounded.	b.	Unattended Vehicles Prohibited.  No mobile food truck shall be parked on the street overnight, or left unattended and unsecured at any time food is kept in the mobile food truck. Any mobile food truck which is found to be unattended shall be considered a public safety hazard and may be ticketed and impounded.	c.	A mobile food truck operating outside of an approved route, at an unauthorized location, or beyond the hours for which the operation has been permitted shall be deemed operating without a permit in violation of this section and may be subject to enforcement under section 17-10.12.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.12  Enforcement.	a.	Fine for Violation. Any permit holder operating a mobile food truck or service in violation of any provision of this section or any rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee may be subject to a fine of three hundred ($300.00) dollars per day. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. The provisions of G.L. c. 40, s. 21D may be used to enforce this section.	b.	Revocation, Suspension, Modification. Once a permit has been issued it may be revoked, suspended, modified, or not renewed by the Commissioner for failure to comply with the
provisions of this section or any rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee.		1.	No permit shall be revoked, suspended, modified, or not renewed without a hearing before the Commissioner or his or her designee, prior to which hearing the Commissioner or his or her designee shall give reasonable notice of the time and place of the hearing and the specific grounds of the proposed action. The decision resulting therefrom shall be final and subject only to judicial review under M.G.L. c. 30A, § 14.		2.	The Commissioner or his or her designee may suspend a permit for no more than three (3) days without a notice or hearing, pursuant to subsection 17-10.12(b)(1), if the Commissioner or his or her designee specifically notifies the permit holder in writing that there is a probability of violation of public safety, health or order. In such a case, a hearing shall be held before the Commissioner or his or her designee within forty-eight (48) hours of the suspension in order to determine whether the public safety, health or order concern justified the suspension.	c.	Removal. Any permit holder found in violation of this section or any rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee may be issued a ticket for violation and the mobile food vehicle may be impounded.	d.	Enforcement. The provisions of this section or any rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee may be enforced jointly by the Boston Police Department and the Boston Transportation Department.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)	17-10.13  Severability.	If any provision of this section is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2011 c. 5)17-11	RESERVED.(Ord. 1985 c. 10 §§ 1-12; Recodified in Chapter XXIII by Ord. 1991 c. 5 § 28)
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1712.3
17-12	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-13
17-12	SAFETY CONTROL MEASURES IN EVENT OF GAS LEAK OR OTHER EMERGENCIES.	17-12.1	Control Measures Required for Emergency Situations.	Public utilities or licensed companies maintaining within the City of Boston pipelines, conduits, wires, or any other system for transmission of natural gas, fuels, water, sewerage, electricity, acids or dangerous substances shall provide control measures to isolate districts or neighborhoods in event of emergency threatening to spread to other districts.(Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 1)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-12.2	Safety Release Discharge Mechanism.	Gas transmission pipeline systems operating in the City of Boston shall, on or before June 30, 1984, in addition to any other control or regulator devices, be equipped with a safety relief discharge mechanism for immediate relief of gas pressures exceeding prescribed tolerances in a district, neighborhood or community. (Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 2)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-12.3	Testing of Water and Sewer Lines; Monitoring of Pipeline Flow.	The Boston Water and Sewer Commission shall survey by means of recognized testing devices all major water lines and sewer lines for evidence of leakage at least semi-annually. The Commission shall also utilize available computerization systems for constant monitoring of pipeline flows.(Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 3)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1	17-12.4	Enforcement.	The Public Safety Commission of the City of Boston shall enforce provisions of this section and shall, after public hearing, adopt any regulations necessary to this purpose.(Ord. 1983 c. 36 § 4)
17-13	THEATRICAL EXHIBITIONS AND PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS.	17-13.1	Application for License.	The Mayor may, unless otherwise prohibited by law, grant a license for theatrical exhibitions, public shows, public amusements, and exhibitions of every description, to be held upon weekdays only, to which admission is obtained upon payment of money or upon the delivery of any valuable thing, or in which, after free admission, amusement is furnished upon deposit of money in coin-controlled apparatus. The application for such license must be in writing and fully and specifically describe the conditions of the proposed exhibition, show, or amusement and the premises upon which the proposed exhibition, show, or amusement is to take place, to the extent that such conditions or premises would affect the public safety, health, or order. Upon written request of the Mayor, the applicant shall, in addition to such description, furnish reasonable information concerning the condition of the premises and actions to be taken in order to prevent danger to the public safety, health, or order.(Ord. 1973 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 426) Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-7.8.	17-13.2	Time Limit for Acting on Application.	The Mayor shall act upon every application for a license or renewal of a license within thirty (30) days next following the date of the filing of said application; and if he shall fail to act upon any application within the thirty (30) days next following the date thereof or such other time as may be prescribed by law, he shall forthwith upon demand of the applicant issue or renew such license, unless he shall have determined that a hearing should be held to consider whether the application should be denied under Subsection 17-13.3 and within such thirty (30) day period shall have given the notice specified in said subsection.(Ord. 1973 c. 9; Ord. 1978 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 427) Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-7.8.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1712.4
17-13	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-13
	17-13.3	Issuance of Licenses.	The Mayor shall grant a license applied for under Subsection 17-13.1, unless he specifically finds, after a hearing preceded by at least ten (10) days written notice to the applicant and to the persons specified in City of Boston Code, St. 14, Section 4 and states in writing within forty-five (45) days next following the close of such hearing that the granting of the license at the premises would lead to or cause an offense under any applicable law, code, or ordinance; or would lead to the creation of a nuisance or otherwise endanger the public health, safety, or order by:	a.	Unreasonably increasing pedestrians or vehicular traffic in the area in which the premises are located; or	b.	Increasing the incidence of illegal or disruptive conduct in the area in which the premises are located; or	c.	Unreasonably increasing the level of noise in the area in which the premises are located; or	d.	Otherwise significantly harming the legitimate protectable interests of the affected citizens of the City.	No application shall be denied if the anticipated harm is not significant or if the likelihood of its occurrence is remote.	The Mayor may impose conditions upon a license but said conditions may only relate to compliance with applicable laws or ordinances, or to public safety, health, or order, or to steps required to be taken to guard against creation of a nuisance or to insure adequate safety and security for patrons of the affected public.(Ord. 1973 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 428; Ord. 1978 c. 9) Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-7.8.	17-13.4	Suspension of License.	No license shall be revoked or suspended without a hearing before the Mayor or his designate,
prior to which hearing the Mayor or his designate shall give reasonable notice of the time and place of the hearing and the specific grounds of the proposed revocation or suspension; provided that the Mayor may suspend a license for no more than three (3) days without such notice or hearing if the Mayor specifically notifies the license holder in writing there is a probability of violation of public safety, health, or order without such suspension. In such a case a hearing shall be held within forty-eight (48) hours of said suspension in order to determine whether the public safety, health, or order justified such suspension.(Ord. 1973 c. 9; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 429) Cross-reference:	Ord. ss 2-7.8.
Rev. 3/1/12 Supp. 11	1712.5
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES		1712.6
17-13	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-13
	17-13.5	Fine for Violation.	Whoever offers to view, sets up, sets on foot, maintains, carries on, or otherwise assists in or promotes any such exhibition, show or amusement without a license shall be subject to a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars for each day on which such violation occurs or during which said violation continues.(Ord. 1973 cs. 9, 10; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 430)	17-13.6	Prohibiting Entertainment During Certain Hours.	No person shall between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., in any club, theater, restaurant, retail store, or in any other place of business or place of public assembly, offer, provide, perform, set up, or suffer another to offer, provide, perform, or set up, any entertainment or music, live, recorded, or mechanical, including but not limited to entertainment or music provided by means of a radio, television, tape recorder, phonograph or projector, except that the showing of a motion picture commenced prior to 12:30 a.m., may continue uninterrupted until its conclusion provided that the same is concluded prior to 3:00 a.m.	Whoever violates this subsection shall be punished by a fine of two hundred ($200.00) dollars for each day such violation continues.(Ord. 1979 c. 4)	17-13.7	Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Diseases.	a.	Declaration of Public Health Emergency. The spread of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection, has created a public health emergency. The spread of these diseases can be limited through the availability of affordable, high quality latex condoms in certain places of public accommodation. The lack of availability of condoms in these places of public accommodation constitutes a danger to public health and welfare.
	b.	Requirement of Vending Machines Which Dispense Condoms.		1.	In order to be granted an annual seven (7) day entertainment license from the Licensing Division of the Mayor's Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing, establishments which also hold a Common Victuallers seven (7) day all alcohol license must install and maintain coin-operated vending machines which dispense affordable, high quality latex condoms. Current holders of annual seven (7) day entertainment licenses from the Licensing Division of the Mayor's Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing which also hold a Common Victuallers seven (7) day all alcohol license must install and maintain coin-operated vending machines which dispense affordable, high quality latex condoms in order to continue to be licensed.		2.	The condom vending machines shall be located in a publicly accessible place, or in at least one (1) male and one (1) female restroom, and shall display a sticker prepared by the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals, which will provide telephone numbers for referral and information concerning STDs, including AIDS.		3.	For the purposes of this subsection, a “high quality latex condom” means a condom which is made of latex, a specific type of rubber product that has no pores, and which is tested and approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.	c.	List of Vending Machine Operators. The Licensing Division of the Mayor's Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals shall maintain a list of vending machine operators who agree to install and maintain the vending machines in continuous working order at no cost to the owners or lessees of the licensed premises.	d.	Exemptions.		1.	This subsection shall not apply to any annual seven (7) day entertainment license holder whose establishment is not required to have a restroom.		2.	This subsection shall not apply to any annual seven (7) day entertainment license holder 
	1713
17-14	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-14
whose establishment has a legal maximum occupancy of less than one hundred (100) persons.		3.	This subsection shall not apply to any annual seven (7) day entertainment license which is held by a religious institution or an organization affiliated with a particular religion.		4.	This subsection shall not apply to any annual seven (7) day entertainment license holder whose establishment is required to obtain the license solely due to the use of automatic amusement devices on the premises.		5.	This subsection shall not apply to any annual seven (7) day entertainment license holder who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Licensing Division of the Mayor's Office of Consumer Affairs that, despite the holder's good faith efforts, no vending machine operator is willing to install a condom vending machine on the licensed premises.		6.	This subsection shall not apply to any annual seven (7) day entertainment license holder who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Licensing Division of the Mayor's Office of Consumer Affairs that high quality latex condoms and information concerning STDs, including AIDS, are readily available to patrons on the licensed premises.	e.	Annual Report to the City Council. The Licensing Division of the Mayor's Office of Consumer Affairs and Licensing shall determine whether holders of annual seven (7) day entertainment licenses comply with this subsection, and shall report its findings annually to the City Council for any necessary action.	f.	Severability. The provisions of this subsection are severable and if any provision shall be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions of this subsection which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 1992 c. 12 §§ 1-6)  Penalty, see subsection 16-32.1
17-14	TRANSIENT VENDORS.	17-14.1	Licenses for Vendors.	Every transient vendor, whether principal or agent, authorized by state license to do business in this Commonwealth, before making any sales of goods, wares and merchandise in the City of Boston, shall make application for a local license to the City Clerk, stating the names, residences and places of business of the owners or parties in whose interest said business is conducted, and shall at the same time file with the City Clerk a true statement, under oath, of the average quantity and value of the stock of goods, wares, and merchandise kept or intended to be kept or exposed by him for sale. The City Clerk shall submit said statement to the Commissioner of Assessing who shall forthwith make an examination and valuation of such goods, wares and merchandise and transmit a certificate thereof to the City Clerk.(Rev. Ord. 1961 (Sup. 1971) c. 28 § 19; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 418)  Penalty, see subsection 17-14.5Cross-references:	Ord. ss 2-10.1; Ord. ss 6-2.1.	17-14.2	Issuance of Licenses; Bond to City.	Upon the payment of the fee prescribed by subsection 18-1.20, paragraph 9, the City Clerk shall issue to the transient vendor a license authorizing the sale of such goods, wares and merchandise within the City of Boston. Such license shall remain in force so long as the licensee shall continuously keep and expose for sale in the City of Boston such stock of goods, wares and merchandise, but not later than the first day of January following its date of issuance. Every transient vendor licensed under this ordinance shall also execute a bond to the City of Boston in the sum of five hundred ($500.00) dollars with two (2) sufficient sureties, conditioned for faithful observance of this ordinance.(St. 1933 c. 254 § 64; Ord.1956 c. 7 § 6; Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 20; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 419)  Penalty, see subsection 17-14.5	17-14.3	Display of License.	Every transient vendor who is granted a license under the provisions of this section shall exhibit the 
	1714
17-14	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-15
same at all times, while in force, in some conspicuous part of the place of business for which it is issued.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 21; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 420)  Penalty, see subsection 17-14.5	17-14.4	Definition.	The term “transient vendor” for the purposes of this ordinance shall be the same as defined in Sections 1 and 2 of Chapter 101 of the General Laws of Massachusetts and acts in amendment thereof and addition thereto.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 22; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 421) Cross-reference:	G.L. c. 101 §§ 1, 2.	17-14.5	Penalties for Violation.	Any person, association or corporation who shall engage in the business of a transient vendor, as herein defined, without having secured a license for that purpose as provided in this section, or who neglects or refuses to file the statement described in Subsection 17-14.1, or who makes a false or fraudulent representation in said statement, or who, having secured such license, shall thereafter fail to pay the sum required herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine of twenty ($20.00) dollars for each day during which such goods, wares or merchandise are kept or exposed for sale.(Rev. Ord. 1961 c. 28 § 23; CBC 1975 Ord. T14 § 422)17-15	TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BY MOTOR VEHICLE; REGULATIONS.	17-15.1	Definitions.	Carrier shall mean a person engaged in the business of transporting hazardous materials on streets and highways by motor vehicles; if the motor vehicle is leased, the lessee is the carrier.	City shall mean the City of Boston. 
	Hazardous Materials shall mean the following are designated hazardous materials for the purpose of this section:	Class A Explosives (173.53) – Numbers in parens. Refer to Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.	Class B Explosives – (173.88).	Poisonous Gases – Poison A (173.326).	Flammable Solid – (172.101).	Radioactive Materials with Radioactive Yellow III – label (172.403), excluding USA DOT – 7AX Type A radioactive materials that are intended for use in, or incident to, research or medical diagnosis, or treatment.	Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG).	Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG).	Liquefied Hydrogen – (173.316).	Flammable Liquids with flash points seventy-three (73̊F) degrees Fahrenheit or less, in gross quantities of one thousand (1,000) pounds or more.	Operate shall mean to engage in the transport of hazardous materials in commerce on the streets and highways by motor vehicle.	Person shall mean any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, society, association, joint venture, or other legal entity.	Vehicle shall mean a motor vehicle used for the transportation of hazardous materials in commerce.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 1)	17-15.2	Regulations Established.	Regulations concerning the transport of hazardous materials.	a.	The Fire Commissioner and Commissioner of Health and Hospitals shall promulgate joint 
	1715
17-15	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-15
regulations under the authority of M.G.L.A. Chapter 148, Section 9 and M.G.L.A. Chapter 111, Section 122, and this section and not inconsistent with such authority or regulations issued thereunder. A hearing shall be provided as required by law. Such regulations shall require but not be limited to the following:		1.	Adopt Massachusetts Department of Public Works regulation CMR Title 720, Section 8 to ensure the application of those regulations to City streets.		2.	Prohibit the transportation of hazardous materials within designated parts of the City between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excluded. Drivers may operate their vehicles in the designated areas of the City during these restricted hours only if they obtain a permit from the Fire Commissioner to do so.		3.	Prohibit the transportation of hazardous materials excluding flammable fluids within the City if there is neither a point of origin nor a destination (delivery point) within the City and if a practical alternative route exists from origin to destination outside the City. Economic criteria shall not be determinative of whether or not an alternative route is practical. If a practical alternative route does not exist as determined by the Fire Commissioner he shall designate appropriate routes within the City.		4.	Designate routes within the City on which carriers may operate their vehicles. These routes shall not go through or near heavily populated areas, places where crowds are assembled, tunnels, narrow streets or alleys, unless no reasonable alternatives exist.		5.	Require carriers to obtain permits to operate in unrestricted parts of the City where, in the discretion of the Fire Commissioner and due to the nature of the hazardous materials and/or the routes and parts of the City involved, special precautions are considered necessary.		6.	Regulate the operation of all vehicles within the City. This regulation may extend to, but not be limited to,			(a)	The speed at which vehicles may operate in the City;
			(b)	Vehicles stopping within the City;			(c)	The degree to which a driver may leave a vehicle unattended;			(d)	The distance that must be maintained between vehicles in transit;			(e)	A requirement that vehicles be equipped with radio communications;			(f)	A requirement that vehicles be provided with adequate illumination and warning lights;			(g)	Requirement that vehicles be placarded “HAZARDOUS CARGO” with identification of that specific hazardous material.		7.	Require all carriers to report to the Fire Department every accident within the City involving that carrier's vehicle which results in any of the following:			(a)	Injury or fatality;			(b)	Continuing danger to life or health at the scene of the accident;			(c)	The disabling of the vehicle;			(d)	Estimated property damage exceeding one hundred ($100.00) dollars;			(e)	An unintentional release of hazardous material from the vehicle.		NOTE: The carrier shall report the accident to the Fire Department:				(1)	By phone or in person immediately after the occurrence of the accident; and				(2)	In writing within ten (10) days following the accident on a form to be furnished by the Fire Commissioner.		8.	Establish a permit system which requires the following:			(a)	That any carriers who wish to operate their vehicles in a manner inconsistent with
	1716
17-15	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-15
this section and/or regulations hereunder be required to obtain a permit from the Fire Commissioner;			(b)	That a permit be issued only where compelling need is shown and where transporting hazardous materials is in the public interest;			(c)	That permits be granted for a period of one year and be automatically renewed upon application unless revoked for cause after a hearing before the Traffic and Parking Commission;			(d)	That permits be revocable and not transferable;			(e)	That permits be carried in the cab at all times and that a suitable means be used to allow ready identification of carriers with permits from outside the vehicle;			(f)	That annual fees for permits be set as required to defray administrative expenses and as permitted by law;		9.	The Fire Commissioners and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals shall have the authority to promulgate all regulations necessary to give full effect to the provisions of this section.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 2)  Penalty, see subsection 17-15.8	17-15.3	Suspension of Operations.	The Fire Commissioner may temporarily suspend the operation of some or all vehicles within the City, without notice whenever road, weather, traffic, or other special circumstances warrant that action.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 3)	17-15.4	Authority to Restrict Other Hazardous Materials.	The Fire Commissioner and the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals shall have the authority to promulgate regulations controlling the transportation of the following hazardous materials within the City:	Oxidizers (173.151)	Organic Peroxide (173.151a)
	Flammable, Pyrophoric and Combustible Materials (173.115)	Radioactive Materials with Radioactive White I or Yellow 11 label (172.403)	Certain Hazardous Materials which have been identified as posing more than one hazard, for example, uranium hexafloride which is corrosive and radioactive.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 4)	17-15.5	Authority to Suspend Restriction.	The Commissioner shall have the authority to suspend the aforementioned restrictions, in whole or in part, when extenuating circumstances severely limit transit around the City. (Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 5)	17-15.6	Delivery of Gasoline and Home Heating Oil.	Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as prohibiting or interfering with the delivery of home heating oil or gasoline within the City of Boston.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 6)	17-15.7	Reports.	The Fire Commissioner shall compile and submit to the Boston City Council, by February 1 of each year, a written report describing the administration and enforcement of this section, and the regulations issued hereunder, in the calendar year just concluded. This report shall include:	a.	A list of permits issued, expired and renewed;	b.	A list of accidents reported pursuant to subsection 7-15.2a,7.	c.	A list of all noted violations of this section;	d.	Other information the Commissioner considers pertinent. (Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 7)
	1717
17-15	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-16
	17-15.8	Violations.	Any person who violates any provision of this section and/or regulations promulgated hereunder shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars in accordance with Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., Chapter 148, Section 10B.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 8)	17-15.9	Severability.	If any provision or clause of this section or application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this section which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this section are declared to be severable.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 9)			17-15.10	Fees, Rules and Effective Dates.	The Fire Commissioner and the Commissioner of Health and Hospital shall establish a fee structure to cover the administrative costs of this section.	To satisfy the requirement of publications, the Fire Commissioner shall hold public hearings to provide affected parties with the details of the regulations promulgated under this section.	The effective date of regulations promulgated under this section shall be ninety (90) days after the completion of said public hearings.(Ord. 1979 c. 39 § 10)Cross-reference:	Transportation of Hazardous Materials by Rail;	  Prior Notification of Fire Commissioner,	  Section 17-16.17-16	TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BY RAIL; NOTIFICATION OF FIRE COMMISSIONER.	17-16.1	Notification of Fire Commissioner; Time Required.	Within a reasonable time, but at least five (5) hours prior to the rail shipment into or within the City 
of Boston of any hazardous materials, as defined in Subsection 17-15.1 of 17-15 “Transportation of Hazardous Materials by Motor Vehicles; Regulations,” the operator of the rail carrier shall notify the Fire Commissioner of the content, amount, route and destination point, if within the City, of said shipment. In cases where it is impossible to notify the Fire Commissioner within the time required, said operator may apply to the Fire Commissioner for a waiver of said requirement and said waiver may be granted if the Fire Commissioner is satisfied that the public health and safety would not be endangered.(Ord. 1980 c. 5 § 1)  Penalty, see subsection 17-16.3	17-16.2	Fire Commissioner’s Procedures.	The Fire Commissioner shall record and compile such information in order to ensure adequate response in case of an accident involving a hazardous material. The Commissioner shall notify the Commissioner of Health and Hospitals of any shipment whose spillage or other accident would require an emergency response by the Department of Health and Hospitals. No person shall disclose to a competitor or any person except as necessary to enforce this section, information involved in a business transaction about the nature, kind, quantity, destination, consignee or routing of said shipment if that information may be used to the detriment of the shipper or consignee as provided in 49 USC s. 11910 (a)(1).(Ord. 1980 c. 5 § 2)  Penalty, see subsection 17-16.3	17-16.3	Violations; Penalty.	Any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars.(Ord. 1980 c. 5 § 3)
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1718
17-17	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-17
17-17	PRUDENTIAL AFFAIRS AND INTERNAL POLICE; REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN ARMED SECURITY GUARDS AND LICENSURE AS SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS OPERATING IN A PUBLIC PLACE.	Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 and in order to preserve the peace and good order in the City of Boston in public places so as to protect the public safety and maintain the discipline of the internal police, the Police Commissioner is hereby authorized to require private armed security guards or watchmen who operate openly in the presence of the general public in a public place to register as herein provided and to obtain licensure as a special police officer; the Police Commissioner is further authorized to require businesses employing such armed guards or watchmen operating openly in the presence of the general public in public places to register as provided in this section.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.1	Armed Security Guard or			Watchmen Registration.	Any person employed in the City of Boston as a private security guard or watchman armed with a firearm whose services are performed openly in the presence of the general public in a public place as defined in CBC 17-17.2 below, shall register with the Boston Police Commissioner by submitting supporting documentation: 	a.	To demonstrate that such person holds a license to carry a firearm pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 140, Section 131; and, where applicable, 	b.	To demonstrate that such person is an employee of a licensee authorized to engage in such business pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 147, Section 122-30; and 	c.	To identify the location of the public place(s) where such person is or will be assigned or employed as an armed security guard or watchman in Boston. For purposes of this section only, the term armed shall have the meaning as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 140,  Section 121.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)
	17-17.2	Definition of Public Place.	For the purposes of this section, a public place shall be substantially the same as that defined in M.G.L. Chapter 272, Section 92A and shall be deemed to include any place which is open to and accepts or solicits the patronage of the general public such as a retail store or establishment, including those dispensing personal services. For the purposes of this section only, public place shall not include places of entertainment or recreation, restaurants or bars or any public entity whether federal, state, municipal or any political subdivision of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; nor shall public place include any entity or institution whose armed security guards or watchmen are employed in the capacity of State licensed special police officers pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 22C, Section 51-68.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.3	Business Registration.	Any private entity in the City of Boston conducting business within a public place that hires a private armed security guard whose assignment for any duration is to guard persons or property in such a public place openly in the presence of the general public as described in CBC 17-17.7 shall register all required information as provided for by such rules or regulations promulgated from time to time by the Police Commissioner pursuant to this ordinance. However, such registration requirement may be delegated by contract to any person licensed under M.G.L.  Chapter 147, Section 25. A copy of the delegation shall be submitted to the Police Commissioner.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.4	Employment.	Employ or hire shall mean assigned or employed directly or indirectly by such business whether part-time, temporary or on a permanent basis regardless of whether the guard is an employee of such business or is employed by a contractor engaged in offering armed security guard services as permitted in M.G.L. Chapter 147, Section 22-30.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.5	 Armed Security Guards or			 Watchmen Licensed as Special			 Police Officers.	a.	Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21 and in order to preserve the peace and good order in
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1719
17-17	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	17-17
such public places so as to protect the public safety and maintain the discipline of the internal police, the Police Commissioner is hereby authorized to require private armed security guards or watchmen employed or assigned in Boston openly and in the presence of the general public as described in CBC 17-17.6, to be licensed by the Police Commissioner as a special police officer. This requirement for licensure as a special police officer by the Police Commissioner shall not apply to armed security guards who are employed in the capacity of a State licensed special police officers pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 22C, Section 51-68, or those otherwise exempted by CBC 17-17.2.	b.	On the application of any individual that the Police Commissioner may deem suitable for licensure as a special police officer, such individual shall serve without pay from the City of Boston, and the corporation or person employing such individual as a special police officer under this section shall be liable for the official misconduct of the officer licensed on such application, as for the torts of any servant or agent in the employ of such corporation or person.	c.	A special police officer shall have the power of police officers to preserve order and to enforce the laws and ordinances of the city, in and about any public place as defined in CBC 17-17.2, for which he or she is hired as an armed security guard or watchman to serve openly in the presence of the public as described in CBC 17-17.7.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.6	Renewal and Revocation of			Special Police Officer License.	A special police officer licensed under the provisions of this ordinance shall seek renewal of such license annually. The Police Commissioner may annually renew and may at any time for cause, after notice and a hearing, revoke, any such license. An application for a renewal shall be on a form furnished by the Commissioner.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.7	Covered Armed Security			Guard or Watchman.	This section shall apply only to private armed security guards or watchmen whose assignment is to guard persons or property openly in the presence of
the general public in a public place and who are not otherwise exempt under this section.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.8	Regulatory Authority;			Enforcement and Fees.	The Boston Police Department shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and enforce this section pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 40, Section 21D. Pursuant to St. 1949, c. 222, the Police Commissioner may charge an appropriate fee for such services attendant to the registration and licensure process.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.9	Severability.	If any provision of this section shall be held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.10  Implementation.	The provisions of this section regarding registration of businesses and armed security guards shall become effective within one hundred eighty (180) days after passage; however, the provisions of CBC 17-17.5 regarding licensure as special police officers for armed security guards shall become effective thirty (30) days after the Police Commissioner promulgates regulations consistent with this section.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)	17-17.11  Fines.	Any person serving as a private armed security guard or watchman within the City of Boston without the registration required in CBC 17-17.1 shall be fined in the amount of three hundred ($300.00) dollars for each week the officer fails to obtain the proper registration. Any business which hires an armed security guard or watchman who has not registered as required in CBC 17-17.1, or if such business fails to register the required information in accordance with CBC 17-17.3 herein described, shall be fined in the amount of three hundred ($300.00) dollars for each week the business fails to register.(Ord. 2010 c. 1)
Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1720
17-17	LICENSES AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING CERTAIN TRADES	17-17
Editor’s Note:	Former Section 17-17, Registration of Bicycle	  Messenger Services and Licensing of	  Commercial Messengers, previously codified	  herein and containing portion of Ordinance	  1991 c. 7 and was repealed in its entirety by	  Ordinance 1999 c. 4. This section has been	  superceded by Chapter 302 of the Acts and	  Resolves of 1998, “An act providing for	  registration of bicycle messenger services 	  and licensing of commercial messengers in 	  the City of Boston.”

Rev. 3/31/11 Supp. 10	1721
	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES		1722