	CHAPTER XIX	SCHOOLS
19-1	SCHOOL DEPARTMENT.	19-1.1	Possession, Detection, of Weapons in Schoolhouses.	No person other than a sworn officer of the Commonwealth, a member of the military service on active duty, or a constable, officer or official of the City or County having a license to carry firearms shall in any schoolhouse have possession of any dangerous weapon, which term shall include any firearm, and any item described in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 10 of Chapter 269 of the General Laws, unless authorized by the Superintendent of Schools or the Superintendent’s designee. If the Superintendent shall determine public safety requires, a system for detection of weapons may be established in any schoolhouse and no person shall be admitted to, or enter, a schoolhouse without submitting to such detection system. Any person violating the provisions hereof shall be punished by a fine of two hundred ($200.00) dollars.(Ord. 1992 c. 3 § 1)	19-1.2	Monthly Report on Incidents.	The School Committee shall prepare and furnish, each month to the Mayor and City Council, a report on the number of incidents reported in the schools of the City by the Boston School Police during the previous month, tabulated by school zone, and providing, in addition to the school zone, the geographical area of the City comprising the school zone. The School Committee shall, in preparing each report, also include the cumulative totals of the incidents enumerated above, tabulated as aforesaid, for the year to date of making the report.(Ord. 1994 c. 3)

	19-1.3	School Bus Safety.	a.	Every school bus regularly employed in the transportation of children to schools in the City shall be equipped with and use when accepting and discharging passengers a crossing gate, so called, which shall extend out in front of the school bus. This section shall not apply to those vehicles owned or leased by the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority.	b.	This section shall apply to all school buses purchased on or after July 1, 1999.(Ord. 2000 c. 2)19-2	SALARY OF SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBERS.	Effective January 1, 1987, all members of the Boston School Committee be paid an annual stipend of seven thousand, five hundred ($7,500.00) dollars.(Ord. 1986, c. 23 § 4 [500])19-3	PUBLIC SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE ANNUAL AUDITING.	19-3.1	Report by Boston Public School Department.	a.	The Boston Public School Department, or its successor, shall prepare a report detailing the repairs, renovations, and/or upgrades necessary to ensure, protect, and/or improve the condition of each and every school building.	b.	The report shall include the actual and/or estimated costs of each repair, renovation, and/or upgrade.  The report shall also identify:Rev. 1/27/07 Supp. 6	1901
19-3	CITY OF BOSTON CODE - ORDINANCES	19-3
		1.	The total amount allocated in the then-current year’s budget for school repairs, renovations, and/or upgrades;		2.	The total amount actually spent on school repairs, renovations, and/or upgrades for the then-current school year as of the date of the report; and		3.	The amount estimated to be spent on school repairs, renovations, and/or upgrades by the close of the then-current school year.	c.	On or before March 1 of each year, the Boston Public School Department shall submit the report to the Clerk for the City of Boston who shall assign the document a docket number for the next regular meeting of the Boston City Council.  The appropriate committee of the Boston City Council shall study the report and shall convene a public hearing on the matter within four (4) weeks.(Ord. 2006 c. 10 § 1)	19-3.2	Report by Healthy Schools Task Force.	a.	The Healthy Schools Task Force, or its successor, shall prepare a report detailing the environment audit of each and every school building.  The report shall include whether repairs were indicated as necessary, whether such repairs were completed, the actual cost of such repairs actually completed, and the estimated cost of repairs not actually completed.	b.	On or before March 1 of each year, the Healthy Schools Task Force shall submit the report to the Clerk for the City of Boston who shall assign the document a docket number for the next regular meeting of the Boston City Council.  The appropriate committee of the Boston City Council shall study the report and shall convene a public hearing on the matter within four (4) weeks.(Ord. 2006 c. 10 § 1)

Rev. 1/27/07 Supp. 6	1902